[
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaysian_cuisine", "content": "\n\n  consists of cooking traditions and practices found in  , and reflects the multi-ethnic makeup of its population.  The vast majority of  's population can roughly be divided among three major ethnic groups:  ,   and  . The remainder consists of the   peoples of   and   in  , the   of  , the   and   creole communities, as well as a significant number of foreign workers and expatriates.\n As a result of historical migrations, colonisation by foreign powers, and its geographical position within its wider home region, Malaysia's culinary style in the present day is primarily a melange of traditions from its Malay, Chinese, Indian,  ,   and indigenous Bornean and Orang Asli, with light to heavy influences from  ,  ,  ,   and  , to name a few. This resulted in a symphony of flavours, making Malaysian cuisine highly complex and diverse. The condiments, herbs and spices used in cooking vary.\n Because Peninsular Malaysia shares a common history with  , it is common to find versions of the same dish across both sides of the border regardless of the place of origin, such as   and  . The same thing can be said with Malaysian Borneo and  , such as  . Also because of their proximity, historic   and close ethnic and cultural kinship, Malaysia shares culinary ties with  ,   and the  ,  as these nations often share certain dishes, such as   and  .\n Because the vast majority of Chinese Malaysians are descendants of immigrants from  , Malaysian Chinese cuisine is predominantly based on an eclectic repertoire of dishes with roots from Fujian, Teochew,  , Hakka and Hainanese cuisines.  However, despite the vast majority of Indian Malaysians are descendants of immigrants from southern India, Malaysian Indian cuisine has a mixture of north-south Indian and Sri Lankan diversity that can be differentiated by drier or wetter curry dish preparation. \n Malaysian cuisine has developed over the  . Although the modern state of Malaysia did not exist until 1963, the cuisine can claim traceable roots as far back as the 1400s during the time of the  . Malaysian cuisine is a mixture of various food cultures from around the Malay archipelago, India, China, the Middle East, and several European countries.  This diverse culinary culture stems from Malaysia's diverse culture and colonial past.  The cuisine was developed as a melange between local and foreign. In the 15th century, the region now known as Malaysia became an important passageway for maritime trade. Passing through Malaysia were Arab traders who   from the Middle East, as well as Portuguese, Dutch, and English colonists and traders who introduced food staples such as peanuts, pineapples, avocado, tomato, squash and pumpkin.  During the 19th century during the period of British colonial rule, many Indian and Chinese laborers were brought to Malaysia, contributing to the diversity of tastes in Malaysian cuisine. \n Being a multicultural country, Malaysians have over the years adopted each other's dishes to suit the taste buds of their own culture. For instance, Malaysians of Chinese descent have adapted the Indian  , and made it more dilute and less spicy to suit their taste. Chinese   have been crossed with Indian and Malay tastes and thus Malay fried noodles and Indian fried noodles were born. Malaysians have also adapted famous dishes from neighbouring countries, or those with strong cultural and religious ties, and in the absence of an established community from said countries have made it completely their own, a notable example being  , one of Thailand's most well-known dishes.\n After migrating south of the border, Thai tom yam takes on the visual characteristics of a Malaysian Assam gravy with a flavour profile of sweet, sour and spicy. It is thickened with pounded chile paste which also turns it a vivid orange-red.   is often used instead of lime juice as its souring agent, and dried instead of fresh chillies are used to provide a fiery kick.   tom yam soup tends to be heavily seafood-based, whereas in Chinese-style eateries the broth's spiciness is toned down and usually serves as a base for noodle soup.\n Across the sea from Peninsular Malaysia, on Borneo island, lie the states of Sabah and Sarawak. Traditional lifestyles and limited roads still predominate outside of the major cities, especially in Sarawak, where rivers are the only major highways for much of the inland population. The jungles of Borneo are teeming with wild plants, fungi, and fruits, and its sweeping coastlines and many large rivers provide an abundance of seafood and freshwater fish fit for the dinner table. A rich variety of traditional food has been developed by Borneo's many tribes and indigenous groups over the centuries; much of it is healthy food, consisting of foraged (now increasingly cultivated due to modernisation) and fermented foods. Because much of the region was once under the Brunei Sultanate's  , the   have left a lasting culinary influence, particularly on the cookery of the coastal Muslim communities of East Malaysia. According to the source paper written in 2006, the Malaysian food industrial sector accounted for about 14% of the total manufacturing energy consumption. \n Historically speaking, fresh produce is often scarce for hunter-gatherer nomadic tribes around the world, thus it is usually preserved out of necessity for important events and festivals. The tribal peoples of Sabah and Sarawak are no different; most of them have developed techniques for curing, fermenting or preserving their supplies of fresh meat, fruit and vegetables. For example, during festive occasions the   of Sabah would serve   (  in the Malay language) made from fresh raw   or river fish, which is stuffed in bamboo tubes along with rice and salt and left to ferment for a few weeks, a technique which is also practised by the   people across the border in Sarawak. Fermented products are also frequently used as a cooking ingredient besides eaten on their own. Dayak households in Sarawak may saute their version of   with garlic and tapioca leaves (either fresh or pickled), and fermented    is a popular cooking seasoning. \n The production and consumption of traditional liquor play an important cultural role for the non-Muslim peoples of East Malaysia. Alcoholic drinks made from rice is the most common form, as well as the widely available. In Sabah, the Penampang Kadazan   is perhaps the most well known. Yet due to the historical lack of a standardised Kadazandusun language used and understood statewide, ethnic groups from other districts in Sabah have very different names for similar fermented rice-based drinks: hiing (certain Dusun languages), kinomol, segantang, kinarung, kinopi, linahas, and even   To add to the confusion, tapai proper as understood by most Peninsular Malaysians is a fermented sweet and sour rice paste served as a snack or dessert, although further fermentation of the tapai to produce alcoholic drinks is possible. The preferred party drink of the Murut, made from the tuber of the cassava or tapioca plant, is also called tapai.  The Iban of Sarawak call their rice wine tuak, which must not be confused with Sabahan talak, which is a hard liquor made from rice. To the native peoples of Sarawak, tuak may also refer to any alcoholic drink made from fermenting any carbohydrate-rich substance besides rice. \n National cuisines are coveted constructs by tourism industries that need to serve tourists a variety of \"local\" or \"authentic\" dishes. In reality the ethnic makeup of countries often gives rise to dispute over ownership or inclusion of dishes in a respective national cuisine. The dishes that are most attractive to foreign tourists are heavily promoted as \"typical\" or \"local\". Malaysian cuisine has been promoted through Malaysian media and advertisements as inclusive of the cuisines of many Asian ethnic groups and cultures, and Malaysia as a singular location to experience the a diversity of authentic Asian  . When the Ministry of Culture launched a program to promote cultural tourism it was decided that Malaysia would be \"promoted as a meeting point of many different dishes from various ethnic groups\" living in the country.\n Another goal of national cuisine is ethnic harmony in modern nation states. Malaysia saw culture as a path to cohesive national identity after the   in 1969. In 1979 Islam was formally recognized as \"an important element in the national culture.\"\n Rice ( :  ) is the most important staple food in Malaysia. According to Indonesian-born food and cookery writer  , there is some evidence for rice cultivation found in the state of   in Malaysian   dated 2300 BC, and about 900 years of history for the state of   in West Malaysia. Today   produces about seventy percent of the amount of rice it needs to support itself and the rest is imported.  This is a matter of policy as the government believes that national resources can be used more profitably instead of attempting to achieve self-sufficiency with rice production; the prevalent attitude is that revenue generated from its industries enables the country to import up to half the rice it needs.  Nevertheless, the government is fully committed and involved in planning, allocating resources and managing subsidies for the rice farming industry. The state of Kedah is considered the \"rice bowl\"  ( :  ) of the country, accounting for about half of Malaysia's total production of  .\n , to be served with side dishes of meat or vegetables, is typically prepared with an electric   at home. Some households and food establishments prefer to cook rice on a stove top with the absorption method or the rapid-boil method. Compressed rice, called  , is another method of preparing and cooking rice: the rice is wrapped with fronds or leaves and compressed into the form of a cylinder, which is then cooked by boiling. The rice would compress and merge during the cooking process. Compressed rice is usually eaten cold with some sort of gravy, although it may be served warm in a broth or soup. A notable variant of compressed rice prepared by the   community is  : rice is precooked with coconut milk before it is wrapped in banana leaves and steamed until fully cooked.\n Besides the ubiquitous white rice, there are different types of locally grown and imported rice available in the market, and each type has a specific cooking method to bring out optimal results.  Glutinous rice ( :  ) is one example: because of its low   and high   content which results in a sticky texture after cooking, glutinous rice is prepared with different measurements and techniques and is not suitably interchangeable with regular rice. It is typically used for making snacks and desserts, but glutinous rice is also prepared as a savoury staple by indigenous peoples like the   as well as the   of Borneo.   is glutinous rice roasted in a hollowed bamboo tube, and is prepared for festive occasions like  ,  , and  . \n A popular dish based on rice in Malaysia is  , rice steamed with coconut milk and pandan leaves to give it a rich fragrance. Of Malay origin,   is very popular and frequently referred to as the  .  It is customarily served with   or fried anchovies, peanuts, sliced  , hard-boiled eggs and  . Although it is often considered a breakfast dish, it is served in a variety of ways and commonly eaten at any time of day due to its versatility. For a more substantial meal,   may be served with fried chicken, curries, or a spicy meat stew called  .\n  is a type of rice   or gruel popular among Malaysia's ethnic communities. It is eaten primarily as a breakfast food or late supper. It is also considered particularly suitable for the sick as a mild, easily digestible food.  Congee is called   in  ; 粥 written in  , pronounced as   in   and   in  ; and   (கஞ்சி) in  . It may be served plain with little embellishment, or cooked with ingredients like fish slices, seafood, chicken, beef, pork, vegetables, and spices. The importance and popularity of congee in the Malaysian diet is such that   or chicken congee is a permanent fixture on the menu of Malaysian   restaurants. \n  are another popular staple, particularly in Malaysian Chinese cuisine, but used by other groups as well. Noodles such as bi hoon (米粉,  : bí-hún,  :  ;  ),   (粿條, Hokkien: kóe-tiâu) or ho fun (河粉,  : ho4 fan2;  ), mee (麵 or 面, Hokkien: mī, Malay:  ; yellow noodles), mee suah (麵線 or 面线, Hokkien: mī-sòaⁿ;  ), yee meen (伊麵 or 伊面, Cantonese: ji1 min6;  ), dongfen (冬粉, Hokkien: tang-hún, Cantonese: dung1 fan2;  ), Lao Shu Fen (老鼠粉, Cantonese: lou5 syu2 fan2;  ), and others provide an alternative source of carbohydrate to a serving of rice that accompanies every meal. Stir-fried noodle dishes ( :  ) are ubiquitous throughout Malaysia's cities, towns and villages, with numerous localised variants prepared by various ethnic communities according to their culinary traditions and preferences.\n Malaysia does not produce wheat, and all supplies are imported from wheat-producing countries. Nevertheless, Western-style   and   made with wheat flour like   are fairly common foods or is sandwiched along with a layer of   between slices of untoasted white bread.\n Traditional wheat-based pleated steamed   or pao (Chinese : 包子) is a Chinese staple which has become tightly woven into Malaysia's gastronomic fabric. Pao are found in restaurants doing brunch   trade, as well as specialist Chinese   (coffee shops). Sweet fillings may include  ,  ,  , pandan, ground peanuts, and custard; savoury fillings may consist of stewed   (Chinese : 叉燒), chicken or pork. Malay versions ( ) may be found in night markets ( ) and they are always  , with fillings of curried potato, chicken or beef. Some variants have a   in the middle in addition to the curry.\n Oven-baked buns are also available in specialist bakeries,  , and restaurants. One local speciality in particular - a bun with a buttery core and topped with a crispy and fragrant coffee pastry crust - has achieved iconic status in Malaysia, and franchises like   and Pappa Roti which specialise in these coffee buns have successfully expanded abroad to multiple nations and spawned hundreds of outlets. However, the popular buns that remain a favourite among Malaysians are the buns that are filled with a sweet shredded coconut filling,   (coconut jam),   (screwpine with coconut jam), sweet corn, chocolate, red bean paste and butter buns.\n Like Peninsular Malaysia, rice is the undisputed staple food for the majority of the people of Sabah and Sarawak. Rice is central to   culture, and its paramount importance is reflected in the annual   festival, as well as traditional beliefs and customs since antiquity which revolve around the veneration of rice spirits. But for other ethnic communities throughout Sabah and Sarawak, cassava or tapioca tubers as well as sago starch are also popular staples. The tapioca tuber is just as important as rice to the   of Sabah, while the   of Sarawak make extensive use of both the tuber and leaves of the tapioca plant in their cooking. Sago starch is derived from the pith extracted from the sago palm, and is the staple food for the   and the   peoples of Sarawak. \n Sago starch is prepared as a gooey and sticky paste by the   and   communities called  , and is called   by the Melanau. It is eaten by rolling the paste around the prongs of a bamboo fork, and dipping it into soup,  , or other varieties of gravies and dipping sauces. Aside from being the source for sago pith, the sago palm is a source of another delicacy for the indigenous peoples of Borneo: the  . Called   in Sabah and   in Sarawak, sago grubs are typically eaten raw but also served deep fried, roasted or sauteed. \n Malaysian   is handled according to halal standards to conform with the country's dominant and official religion, Islam.  Imported poultry is available at major hypermarkets, supermarkets and speciality stores especially in affluent areas where a significant expatriate community can be found.\n , both freshwater and saltwater, features prominently in the Malaysian diet. Most local fish is purchased soon after it is caught, while frozen fish is generally imported. Such fish, namely   and  , are well received on the Malaysian table but are not found in Malaysian waters. \nMany types of seafood are consumed in Malaysia, including   or  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . In general, members of all ethnic communities enjoy seafood, which is considered   by Malaysian Muslims (according to  ), though some species of crabs are not considered halal as they can live on both land and sea. Sea cucumbers are considered halal. \n  is common in the Malaysian diet, though it is notable that the consumption of beef is proscribed by some followers of   and certain  . Beef can be commonly found cooked in curries, stews, roasted, or eaten with noodles. Malays generally eat beef that is halal. Australian beef prepared under the Government Supervised Muslim Slaughter System (AGSMS) is imported into Malaysia and is halal. \n , who form about half of Malaysia's population, are   and therefore do not consume pork since  . This does not prohibit others from producing and consuming pork products, and thus pork can be found in  ,   and  , usually displayed with a non-halal disclaimer. Pork is consumed by the Chinese communities, Indians,  ,  ,  ,  , the  , and non-Muslim  . \n In Malaysia, the term \" \" refers to goat meat; lamb, or the meat of a young sheep, is always imported from countries like Australia and New Zealand. In the past mutton was primarily associated with   cuisine, and was not as widely eaten due to health concerns as well as its perceived gamey flavour. Today, dishes like whole spit roast of mutton, mutton   and mutton soup are now a common sight at banquets and events. Today, the demand for mutton during the fasting month and   period has now far exceeded that for   and   combined. \n Locally-grown   is available year-round as Malaysia is a tropical country and does not have four seasons. During rainy seasons, vegetable yields may decrease (which may result in an increase in market price), but rarely if ever stop altogether. Imported produce has made inroads into the market in recent years, either to supplement local demand for essential ingredients like   and  , or to supply produce which does not grow well in Malaysia's climate and soil conditions. A few regions in Malaysia, like   and the foothills adjacent to   provide the appropriate mean temperatures and soil conditions for the cultivation of temperate produce like  .\n Malaysian-grown greens, tubers and vegetables commonly found nationwide include but are not limited to   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),   cucumber ( ) )  ( ), ginger ( ),  ,   ( ,   ( ),  ,  ,  ,   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),   (  or  ),   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),   ( ),  ,  ,   ( ), and   ( ), carrot ( ), and scallions ( ).\n In some areas in Malaysia local produce is grown on a small scale, and many rural communities like the Peninsular   and certain tribal peoples of Sarawak forage wild edible   or vegetables to supplement their diet.  , better known as  , is perhaps the most widely available fern and is found in eateries and restaurants throughout the nation.   is another type of wild fern popularly used for food. Endemic to East Malaysia, it is called   in Sarawak and is prized for its   by locals and visitors. It is known by the native peoples of   as  ,   or  , where both the leaves and the fiddleheads of the plant are eaten. The young shoots of plants like   and coconut are popularly harvested as food by communities outside urban areas.\n A popular way to cook leafy vegetables like   and sweet potato leaves is stir frying with a pungent sauce made from   (shrimp paste) and hot chilli peppers. Other vegetables popularly cooked this way include bean pods and fiddlehead ferns like   and  . Vegetables like carrots, cucumbers, onions and yardlong beans are used to make a localised variety of   called  . Vegetables and herbs are also popularly served undressed and often raw in some rural indigenous communities as  . An   spread may include items such as  , cucumber,  ,   leaves,  , and yardlong beans, typically eaten with a pungent dipping sauce like  .\n As of 2012, about one million people within Malaysia's total population were practising  , and vegetarian food is much easier to obtain when dining out today. However, because of the heavy emphasis on meat and seafood by traditional Malay cuisine as well as the common inclusion of shrimp paste and other seafood products in many local dishes, diners may find it difficult to negotiate their way around menus in search of vegetarian or vegan food in Malay cuisine restaurants.\n Restaurants that display signs with the words  ,   or the Chinese characters   or   will offer a decent variety of food for diners who abstain from meat. There are many of them across the country, particularly in urban areas. These restaurants serve only vegetarian/vegan food and absolutely no meat or animal products is used in their cooking. Even restaurants that specialise in meat and seafood will make vegetarian dishes upon request. Some meat-serving restaurants have a vegetarian section in their menu.\n Over 80% of Malaysian Chinese identify themselves as Buddhists, and some follow a vegetarian diet at least some of the time. Some vegetarian Chinese cuisine restaurants offer an   (Chinese: 素食, 斎) featuring Chinese dishes which resemble meat dishes in look and even taste like \"roast pork\", fried \"fish\" with \"skin\" and \"bones\", and \"chicken drumsticks\" complete with a \"bone\". These restaurants are run by proprietors who abstain from consumption of animal products and strong-tasting vegetables and spices as way of life for religious reasons, and are essentially vegan. The meat analogues used are often locally produced as opposed to imported, and are made solely from ingredients like soy, gluten, mushrooms and tuber vegetables.\n Organic vegetarianism has also slowly become a trendy modern vegetarian diet nowadays. Most of the organic vegetarian menu will include superfood ingredients, for example: organic quinoa, millet, chia seeds, flax seeds, avocado, egg, tofu, pine nuts, blueberry,  , etc. A lot of organic fruit and vegetables are locally produced in recent years. There is even an organic version of vegetarian sambal balacan, Nasi lemak chili paste, etc.\n Buddhist vegetarian restaurants are likely to be found in areas with a high concentration of Chinese and tend to be especially busy on certain festive days where many Buddhists adopt a strict vegetarian diet for at least a day. In Buddhism, some people who are full-time vegetarians are observing the Buddhist  . They are vegetarian because they are observing the precept to abstain from killing or harming living beings intentionally. Another precept is to abstain from taking drugs or intoxicants for enjoyment, hence, alcohol is not used in most pure vegetarian shops. (This is different, however, when ordering vegetarian food off the menu of restaurants that serve meat dishes.)\n Vegetarianism has a long and revered tradition in Indian culture. Some Malaysian Indians are born-and-bred vegetarians who often hail from a family line with generations of vegetarians. Some others practice vegetarianism on auspicious festivals such as Thai Ponggal, Hindu New Year, Deepavali, Full Moon Prayers, and on certain days of the week as a symbol of respect when they visit holy temples. Abstaining from meat before fulfilling a vow is a common practice to bring the body to a neutral and focused state, physically and mentally, during Thaipusam and other holy prayer events. Dishes, of South and North Indian types, are based on the ancient concept of Ayurveda and are known to include arusuvai or six types of tastes. Some Indian vegetarian dishes may incorporate dairy products and honey ( ). Some others are heavily based on lavish coconut milk and nuts. There are many Indian eateries and restaurants in Malaysia that offer a pure vegetarian menu. South Indian restaurants, in particular, offer no shortage of meatless options such as Thali meal, also known as banana leaf rice, which is often vegetarian by default, and a wide array of sweets, snacks and light meals such as kesari, tose, idli, uppuma, vade, aviyal, idiyappam and paniyaram.\n Malaysia's tropical climate allows for fruit to be grown all year round. A huge variety of common and obscure fruits, either locally grown or imported are available throughout the country. While the vast majority of fruits grown in Malaysia naturally thrive in the tropics, a few areas in the country like   or   in Sabah have a different climate zone which enables the cultivation of temperate fruits like  .  Fruit is commonly served after a meal as dessert, and fruit juices are highly sought after as drinks of choice in a climate that is hot and humid all year round. Pickled fruits or   are popular and widely available, whether sold from street stalls or specialist shops. Many localities are named after native fruits, most notably   ( ) and   ( ).\n Fruits are used to make a popular salad dish called   (Chinese: 水果囉喏).  It consists of pieces of fruit and vegetable bound with a viscous dark sauce made from shrimp paste, sugar, chilli, and lime juice. The   version is particularly popular and well regarded. The dish is usually topped with a generous sprinkling of toasted ground peanuts.\n Notable fruits which are cultivated in Malaysia include:\n  are indispensable in Malaysian kitchens, and both fresh and dried forms are used. Chillies come in several sizes, shapes and colours. As a general rule, two type of chilli cultivars are the most commonly available: the   ( ), which although small in size are extremely pungent and very hot; and longer varieties, which tend to be much milder. Green chillies are more peppery in taste, while red chillies, green chillies which have been left to ripen, have a slightly sweeter heat. If a milder flavour is preferred, the seeds and membranes are removed from the chilli pods before they are cut, or the chillies are left whole and removed prior to serving. Some common uses include grinding the chillies into a paste or  ; chopping fresh chillies as a condiment or garnish; and pickling whole or cut chillies.\n  is essential to Malaysian cooking. It is a type of   which is pressed into a block and sun-dried. In its raw form it has a pungent smell. Once cooked, the aroma and flavour mellow and contribute a depth of flavour to the dish.  To prepare   for use, one typically wraps a small amount in foil, which is then roasted over a flame or placed into a preheated oven.   is most commonly pounded or blended with local chilli peppers, shallots and lime juice to make the most popular and ubiquitous relish in Malaysia,  .   is also crumbled into a ground spice paste called  , which usually includes garlic, ginger, onions or shallots, and fresh or dried chilli peppers. A   paste is similar in form and function to an Indian wet   paste or  , and is often browned and caramelised ( :  ) to mellow the raw flavours of its component ingredients and produce a harmonised finish.\n The   ( :  ) is another quintessential feature of Malaysian cuisine, and virtually all parts of the plant are used for culinary purposes. The white fleshy part of the coconut endosperm may be grated, shredded and used as is; dried to make desiccated coconut; or toasted until dark brown and ground to make  . Grated coconut flesh is also squeezed to make  , which is used extensively in savoury dishes and desserts throughout the country.   is used for cooking and cosmetic purposes, and may be either obtained by processing   (dried coconut flesh) or extracted from fresh coconuts as virgin coconut oil.  , the clear liquid found inside the cavity of each coconut, is a popular cooler in Malaysia's hot and humid climate.   is unrefined   produced from the sap of the coconut flower. It is the most traditional sweetener in Malaysian cooking and imbues a rich caramel-like flavour with a hint of coconut. Coconut fronds are traditionally used to wrap food, hollowed out coconut husks and shells may be used as a source of   fuel for barbecued meats and traditional pastry making, and even the apical bud or growing tip of the coconut palm is a popular delicacy served in rural communities and specialty restaurants.\n  of different varieties is another important ingredient. Light soy sauce contributes its pleasantly salty flavour to a variety of stir-fries, marinades and steamed dishes. In some hawker establishments, freshly sliced or pickled chillies arrive immersed in light soy sauce to be used for dipping. Dark soy sauce is thicker, more intense in flavour and less salty. It is often used when a heartier flavour is desired, particularly with   (a style of braising with a blend of soy sauce varieties) dishes, and also to darken the color of a dish.  , sweetened soy sauce sometimes flavoured with star anise or garlic, is also a popular seasoning for cooking. The sweet and savoury taste of   also functions as a substitute to approximate the combination of dark soy sauce and thick caramel sauce, which is primarily used to colour and season stewed dishes.\n Common herbs include   ( :  ), a type of grass with a lemony aroma and flavour. Young, fresh stems are more desirable as older stems tend to acquire a woody texture. The tender white part closest to the base of the stem is thinly sliced and eaten raw in salads, or pounded with other aromatics to make a  . It is also used whole in boiled and simmered dishes. The   leaf is the Asian equivalent of vanilla in Western cuisine. Its subtle aroma is released when the leaves are bruised by tying one or two long leaves into a knot, and used for cooking curries, rice and desserts. The leaves can also be used to wrap items like rice, chicken or fish for cooking. Pandan leaf is also available in liquid essence or powdered form to flavour and colour cakes. Turmeric ( :  ) is a   popular for its flavour as well as colouring properties. The leaves and flowers of the turmeric plant are also used in cooking or eaten raw.\n Tofu products, specifically fried tofu, are widely used as cooking ingredients and as side accompaniments. While fried tofu can be bland in flavour on its own, its main contribution is texture and especially with tofu puffs, the ability to soak up the flavour of whatever they are cooked in. Fried tofu products are found as a versatile component ingredient for dishes like stir fried noodles,   (fruit and vegetable salad), noodle soups, and stews. A popular way of serving fried tofu on its own is   with bean sprouts, shredded cucumber and spring onions, covered in a thick sweet and spicy dressing and dusted with roasted ground peanuts. Fried tofu may also be stuffed with a mixture of ground meat or shredded vegetables.\n Dried seafood products contribute a savoury depth of flavour to some Malaysian dishes. Small dried anchovies, known as  , are very popular. It acquires a crispy texture when deep-fried, and is served as an accompaniment or prepared as a   relish in this capacity.   is also boiled to make fish stock; in fact, instant   stock granules are a popular seasoning in modern kitchens. Dried shrimp and salted dried fish are also used in various ways.\n Other essential seasoning and garnishes include tamarind ( :  ), specifically the paste-like pulp extracted from the fruit pod which contributes a tart flavour to many dishes.   ( :  ) are similar in appearance to  , being round, cream-coloured and having a high oil content. Candlenuts are normally ground to thicken sauces.   is a type of dried   made from pork and spices. Mainly used by the   community, these sweet sausages are usually sliced very thinly and added for additional flavour and texture. Recent studies have shown that there are 62 commonly consumed Malaysian foods that include biogenic amines.\n There is no standard   ( :  ) menu due to Malaysia's multi-ethnic social fabric as well as the advent of modern influences. Western-style breakfast like  , cooked eggs and toast have become commonplace in homes and when dining out, but heartier traditional fare based predominantly on noodles and rice dishes are still very popular. One may choose to start the day with the ubiquitous nasi lemak or kuih; venture for Chinese-style congee,   and noodle soups; or settle for Indian-influenced fare such as  ,   ( :      ),   ( :      ), and  . In the state of  , the term   refers to a breakfast meal which consists of a small serve of rice and complementary dishes or  .\n For lunch and dinner, food is not customarily served in courses but rather concurrently. A meal may consist of a single dish for solitary diners, or rice with many complementary dishes shared by all. At restaurants where food is cooked to order, there is often no distinction between appetizers/starters and main courses, and food will arrive at the table whenever it is ready. At some traditionally-run eateries where pre-cooked food is served, diners are meant to help themselves by starting with a plate of plain rice and choose from a buffet spread of assorted dishes. Like the Indonesian  , this is not an all-you-can-eat for a fixed price dining experience. The cost of the meal would depend on what the diner selects and how many different items were placed on the plate for consumption. In Malay-run   (a small family-owned casual eatery or café) or restaurants ( ), this style of dining is known as   which means \"mixed rice\". A similar concept exist at some eateries serving home-style Malaysian Chinese food, where it may be known as   (Chinese: 杂饭).\n A practice known as \"open house\" ( :  ) is popular during festive seasons, and even as an elaborate occasion to celebrate birthdays and weddings. Open house events are traditionally held at the home of the host: well-wishers are received and that everyone, regardless of background, is invited to attend. Home-cooked or catered food is provided by the host(s) at their own expense, and while it is acceptable for guests to bring along gifts for the host, they are expected to help themselves to the food as much as they like. Open house events may also be held at restaurants and larger public venues, especially when hosted by government agencies or corporations.\n A   or kopi tiam is a traditional coffee shop patronised for meals and beverages, predominantly operated by Chinese proprietors and especially members of the  . The word   is a Malay/Hokkien term for coffee and   is the Hokkien and Hakka term for shop (Chinese : 店). A common sight in Malaysia and neighbouring Singapore, menus often feature offerings like nasi lemak, boiled eggs, roti bakar, noodle dishes, bread and kuih. The owners of some kopitiam establishments may lease premise space to independent stallholders, who sometimes offer more specialised dishes beyond standard Chinese kopitiam fare. Typical beverages include  , a malted chocolate drink considered iconic to Malaysians of all ages, as well as coffee ( ) and tea ( ). Diners would use   to order and customise drinks to their taste.\n The omnipresent   is a Malaysian institution. Available throughout the country and\nparticularly popular in urban areas, Mamak stalls and restaurants offer a wide range of food and some are open 24 hours a day. The proprietors of these establishments are members of Malaysia's   community, who have developed a distinct culinary style and wield an enormous influence on Malaysian food culture disproportionate to their numbers. A type of meal served buffet-style at some Mamak eateries is called  , which is analogous to the Malay   where you pay for what you have actually eaten. The diner is to choose from a variety of curried dishes made with chicken, beef, mutton, or seafood. A mixture of curry sauces is then poured on the provided rice: this is called   (literally means \"flooding\").\n For a traditional Malay meal, rice is considered the centerpiece of a meal, with everything else considered as an accompaniment, relish or side for the rice. Malay cuisine bears many similarities to  , in particular some of the regional traditions from  . It has also been influenced by Chinese, Indian, Thai and many other cultures throughout history, producing a distinct cuisine of their own. Some regional Malay dishes, such as   and  , are examples of influence from   due to longstanding historical and religious ties. Many Malay dishes revolve around a  , which is usually sauteed in oil ( ) to draw out flavours to form the base of a dish. A dipping relish called sambal is an essential accompaniment for most Malay dishes.\n There are certain Malaysian dishes with overt Javanese influences or are direct adaptations from  , brought to Malaysia by   who have been assimilated or integrated into the wider Malay community to various degrees. Javanese cuisine is highly distinct from mainstream Malay cooking, being noted for its simplicity and sweeter flavours, as opposed to mainstream Malay cuisine which is predominantly based on the complex and spicy regional cuisines of  . A popular way of serving Javanese-influenced food in the southern part of Peninsular Malaysia is termed  , which consists of shared platters of white rice served with accompaniments like chicken cooked in soy sauce or curried gravy, stir fried noodles,  , fried shredded coconut pieces, egg, vegetables and so on. \n Malaysian Chinese cuisine is derived from the culinary traditions of Chinese Malaysian immigrants and their descendants, who have adapted or modified their culinary traditions under the influence of Malaysian culture as well as immigration patterns of Chinese to Malaysia. Because the vast majority of Chinese Malaysians are descendants of immigrants from southern China, Malaysian Chinese cuisine is predominantly based on an eclectic repertoire of dishes with roots from  ,  ,   and  . \n As these early immigrants settled in different regions throughout what was then   and  , they carried with them traditions of foods and recipes that were particularly identified with their origins in China, which gradually became infused with the characteristics of their new home locale in Malaysia while remaining distinctively Chinese. For example, Hainanese chicken rice is usually flavoured with tropical pandan leaves and served with chilli sauce for dipping, and tastes unlike the typical chicken dishes found in   itself. Some of these foods and recipes became closely associated with a specific city, town or village, eventually developing iconic status and culminating in a proliferation of nationwide popularity in the present day.\n Chinese food is especially prominent in areas with concentrated Chinese communities, at roadside stalls, hawker centres and kopitiam, as well as smart cafes and upmarket restaurants throughout the nation. Many Chinese dishes have pork as a component ingredient, but chicken is available as a substitution for Muslim customers from the wider community, and some Chinese restaurants are even  -certified. \n A sample of representative Malaysian Chinese dishes found nationwide include:\n  cuisine, or the cooking of the ethnic Indian communities in Malaysia consists of adaptations of authentic dishes from India, as well as original creations inspired by the diverse food culture of Malaysia. As the vast majority of Malaysia's Indian community are mostly   who are descendants of the modern Indian state of   and  's  , much of Malaysian Indian cuisine is predominantly   in character and taste. A typical Malaysian Indian dish is likely to be redolent with curry leaves, whole and powdered spice, and contains fresh coconut in various forms. Ghee is still widely used for cooking, although vegetable oils and refined palm oils are now commonplace in home kitchens. Before a meal it is customary to wash hands as cutlery is often not used while eating, with the exception of a serving spoon for each respective dish.\n Food served in the traditional South Indian manner is termed  . Plain white or parboiled rice would be served with an assortment of vegetable preparations, lentil gravy, pickles, condiments, and   crackers on a banana leaf, which acts as a disposable plate. Banana leaf meals are eaten to celebrate special occasions such as festivals, birthdays, marriages, or to commemorate funeral wakes. It is customary to consume banana leaf meals   and to show appreciation for the food by folding the banana leaf inwards, though less ritual and etiquette is observed when the meal isn't part of a formal occasion, such as the   community's elaborate   feasts. Boiled eggs, meat or seafood dishes are available at banana leaf restaurants which are not exclusively vegetarian or vegan.\n Some notable Malaysian Indian dishes include:\n The food of Sabah reflects the ethnic diversity of its population and is very eclectic. Traditional   cuisine involves mostly boiling or grilling and employs little use of oil. From simple appetizers of seasoned unripe mango to a variety of pickled foods collectively known as  , tangy and pungent flavours derived from souring agents or fermentation techniques is a key characteristic of traditional Kadazandusun cooking.  Rice wine accompanies all Kadazandusun celebrations and rites, and at a   event there will be rows upon rows of jars with fermented tapioca tapai.  Presently few eateries in Sabah serve traditional indigenous dishes, although it will always be found during festive occasions like weddings and funerals, as well as the Kaamatan and Kalimaran cultural festivals. Chinese-influenced dishes like     and Hakka stuffed tofu, along with many original creations developed in Sabah's interior settlements by immigrants from both   throughout the 20th century, feature prominently on the menus of many kopitiam establishments and upscale restaurants. \n Sabah is notable for its excellent seafood, temperate produce and tea (Sabah tea has GI status) grown in the highlands of Mt. Kinabalu, and a small coffee plantation industry with   coffee considered the best produce in the region. Local ingredients like freshwater fish, wild boar (  in native dialects), bamboo shoots, wild ferns, and various jungle produce still figure prominently in the daily diet of the local population. As a significant portion of rural communities still subsist on agriculture as their primary source of income, small scale festivals are even held each year at certain towns to celebrate produce vital to the livelihoods of the local people: the Pesta Jagung of  , the Pesta Rumbia (sago) of  , and Pesta Kelapa from the town of  .  Sabah vegetable, also known as   or   (Chinese : 树仔菜), can be found on the menus of many eateries and restaurants throughout the state of Sabah. It is one of the local terms used for a variety of   developed in  , which yields crunchy edible shoots in addition to its leaves.  The flavour is reminiscent of spinach but more complex, \"as though it had been fortified with broccoli and infused with asparagus\",  and is typically stir-fried with eggs or seasonings like sambal belacan.\n Whether grilled,  , deep-fried, steamed, stir-fried, braised, served raw, or made into soups, Sabah's seafood is famed for its freshness, quality, and good value for money. A vast variety of fish, cephalopods, marine crustaceans, shellfish, sea cucumbers and jellyfish have become mainstays on lunch and dinner menus at kopitiam, restaurants, and humble food shacks all over   and other coastal towns like  ,  ,   and  . Seafood paired with noodles also figure prominently for breakfast, for each day locals flock to speciality eateries where they may be served an assortment of fish-based products to start the day. Examples include:   patties handmade with fresh  ; deep-fried   wrapped in tofu skin sheets; and noodle soups with toppings like sliced  ,  , and fish innards. A few eateries even serve \"noodles\" rolled out with fresh fish paste. \n  is a traditional food for certain seaside communities throughout Sabah and also possess GI status.    is similar in appearance to clusters of green-hued fish eggs or grapes, and is typically prepared as a salad by the   people.   is another popular seaplant product; in recent times it is marketed as a gourmet health food to both locals and tourists, and is given the moniker of \"sea  \" (Chinese : 海底燕窝) as coral seaweed acquires a similar gelatinous texture when dissolved in water. \n Among the foods and beverages particular to Sabah are:\n Sarawakian is quite distinct from the regional cuisines of the Peninsular. It is considered less spicy, lightly prepared and with more emphasis on subtle flavours. The most important spice in Sarawakian cuisine is pepper. Pepper is commercially produced on an industrial scale as a cash crop, and the preferred choice by local cooks when heat is wanted in a dish. Granted GI status by MyIPO, Sarawak black pepper is highly regarded by international culinary figures such as  . \n While the Iban constitute the largest Dayak subgroup as well as the most populous ethnic group in Sarawak, much of the ethnic Iban population is still concentrated away from Sarawak's main urban areas, congregating instead within   communities scattered all over the interior regions of the state. The traditional cookery of the Iban is called   or  , which is the preparation and cooking of food in bamboo tubes. Ingredients like poultry, fish, pork, vegetables or rice are mixed with fragrant herbs like lemongrass, tapioca leaves and   leaves (a species of myrtle from the   genus), then sealed within the bamboo tubes and placed directly over an open fire. Cooking food this way will infuse it with aroma and flavour from the bamboo tubes while keeping it moist. \n During Dayak festivals or  , the Iban would slaughter locally reared pigs. The pig would be cleaned thoroughly after the slaughter, have its head and stomach removed, and the rest of the pig would be cut into smaller pieces in preparation for barbecuing. The head and stomach of a pig are usually put aside and prepared separately as they are considered the choicest parts of the animal; hence pig's heads are a common edible gift brought by visitors to an Iban longhouse, and dishes such as pork stomach cooked with pineapples are a must for Gawai. \n Sarawak is notable for its rice; currently three varieties grown in Sarawak has been granted GI status by MyIPO. \nAmong the foods and beverages particular to Sarawak are:\n Peranakan cuisine, also called Nyonya food, was developed by the Straits Chinese whose descendants reside in today's Malaysia and Singapore. The old Malay word nyonya (also spelled nonya), a term of respect and affection for women of prominent social standing (part \"madame\" and part \"auntie\"), has come to refer to the cuisine of the Peranakans. It uses mainly Chinese ingredients but blends them with Malay ingredients such as coconut milk, lemon grass, turmeric, tamarind, pandan leaves, chillies and  . It can be considered as a blend of Chinese and Malay cooking, with influences from Indonesian Chinese cuisine (for the Nyonya food of Malaccan and Singaporean) and Thai cuisine (for   Nyonya cuisine). Traditional Nyonya cooking is often very elaborate, labour-intensive and time-consuming, and the Peranakan community often consider the best Nyonya food is to be found in private homes.\n Examples of Nyonya dishes include:\n  (plural:  ) are usually, but not always, bite-sized foods associated with the Malay and   communities of Malaysia. In the context of the term being cultural as opposed to being physically descriptive, the concept of   may refer to a selection of cakes, cookies, confections, pastries and sweetmeats. Kuih may be eaten throughout the day for light breakfast, afternoon tea (a tradition adopted from the British), as a snack and increasingly as an after-meal course.\n More often steamed or fried and based on rice or glutinous rice,   items are very different in texture, flavour and appearance from Western oven-baked cakes or puff pastries. Most   items are sweet, and may be classified and eaten as  , but some are also savoury.   is an important feature of festive occasions and is traditionally made at home, but is now available for purchase from home caterers, street vendors, market stallholders and specialist cafes, shops and restaurants. It is difficult to distinguish between   of Malay or Peranakan (also known as \"Straits Chinese\") origin because the histories of traditional   recipes have not been well-documented, and cross-cultural influences over the centuries were commonplace. Even the word   itself is derived from the Hokkien/Teochew word 粿 (pronounced   or  ).\n Examples of notable   include:\n Examples of snack include:\n Desserts and sweets in Malaysia are diverse, due to the multi-ethnic and multicultural characteristics of its society. Traditional Malay and Nyonya desserts tend to share a common feature however: generous amounts of   are used, and the finished product usually flavoured with   (palm sugar) and pandan leaves. Some notable desserts include:\n"},
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabian_cuisine", "content": " ( :  المطبخ العربي السعودي) encompasses the cuisines and foods of  . In spite of the existence of many common dishes, Saudi Arabian dishes vary between regions as the culture itself varies. \n Some of the common food items in Saudi Arabian cuisine include  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   and dates.\n Some additional foods and dishes include:\n Traditional   (maqha) used to be ubiquitous, but are now being displaced by food-hall-style cafes. According to the Saudi Arabian Cultural Mission, \"serving   (Coffee) in Saudi Arabia is a sign of hospitality and generosity\". Traditionally, the coffee beans were roasted, cooled and ground in front of the guests using a mortar and pestle. The host would then add   pods to the coffee beans during the grinding process. Once the coffee was brewed, it would be poured for the guests. Today, though, gahwah is not prepared in front of the guests; instead it is elegantly served in a   and poured into small cups called finjan. \n  is normally made into a drink called  \n  is a cold drink usually made in the   but now available all over Saudi Arabia, especially during  . It is made from a light fermented mixture of  / ,   sap, herbs and spices. It may be either white or colored depending on the flavor. \n Chain restaurants have been slow to gain ground in Saudi Arabia, yet are steadily becoming a part of the local cuisine. Although chain restaurants only account for 25% of sales in the service industry, chains have seen far more growth than independent players in recent years.   , a chain focused on the sale of broasted fried chicken, has led the charge as far as Saudi-owned chains go, and has expanded operations into several neighboring gulf states. \n  forbid the eating of   and the drinking of alcoholic beverages. This law is enforced throughout  . According to Islamic law, animals must be butchered in a   way and blessed before they can be eaten.\n According to the Saudi Arabian cultural mission, \"guests are served hot coffee and dates as a symbol of generosity and hospitality. The same practice is carried out in the month of Ramadan. Muslims in Saudi Arabia break their fast with dates, water and Arabian coffee. The caffeine in the coffee and the carbohydrates and iron in dates nourishes the fasting person with a lot of energy. This helps them perform the   held in the evenings during  .\" \n"},
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culture_of_Malaysia", "content": "\n\n The   draws on the varied cultures of the different people of  . The first people to live in the area were   that still remain; they were followed by the  , who moved there from mainland Asia in ancient times.   and   cultural influences made their mark when trade began with those countries, and increased with immigration to Malaysia. Other cultures that heavily influenced that of Malaysia include  ,   and  . The many different ethnicities that currently exist in Malaysia have their own unique and distinctive cultural identities, with some crossover.\n Arts and music have a long tradition in Malaysia, with Malay art dating back to the Malay sultanates. Traditional art was centred on fields such as carving, silversmithing, and weaving.   taboos restricted artwork depicting humans until the mid-20th century. Performing arts and shadow puppet shows are popular, and often show Indian influences. Various influences can be seen in architecture, from individual cultures in Malaysia and from other countries. Large modern structures have been built, including the tallest twin buildings in the world, the  . Malaysian music has a variety of origins, and is largely based around percussion instruments. Much early Malaysian literature was based on Indian epics, which remained unchanged even as Malays converted to Islam; this has expanded in recent decades. English literature remained restricted to the higher class until the arrival of the printing press. Locally created Chinese and Indian literature appeared in the 19th century.\n Cuisine is often divided along ethnic lines, but some dishes exist which have mixed foods from different ethnicities. Each major religious group has its major holy days declared as official holidays. Official holidays differ by state; the most widespread one is   which celebrates the independence of  . Although festivals often stem from a specific ethnic background, they are celebrated by all people in Malaysia. Traditional sports are popular in Malaysia, while it has become a powerhouse in international sports such as  . Malaysia hosted the   in 1998, the first Commonwealth Games where the torch passed through more countries than England and the host.\n The Malaysian government has taken the step of defining Malaysian Culture through the \"1971 National Culture Policy\", which defined what was considered official culture, basing it around Malay culture and integrating Islamic influences. This especially affected language; only   texts are considered official cultural texts. Government control over the media is strong, and most media outlets are related to the government in some way.\n  consists of two distinct geographical regions:   and  . Malaysia was formed when the   merged with   (today the province of  ),  , and   (seceded 1965) in 1963,  and cultural differences between Peninsular and East Malaysia remain. During the formation of Malaysia, executive power was vested in the   (later the   ) coalition of three racially based political parties, namely the   (UMNO),   (MCA), and   (MIC).  UMNO has dominated the coalition from its inception.  Although   is the official  , the   guarantees  . \n Malaysia is a multi–ethnic, multicultural, and multilingual society, and the many ethnic groups in Malaysia maintain separate cultural identities.  The society of Malaysia has been described as \"Asia in miniature\".  The original culture of the area stemmed from its indigenous tribes, along with the   who moved there in ancient times. Substantial influence exists from the   and   cultures, dating back to when trade with those countries began in the area. Other cultures that heavily influenced that of Malaysia include  ,  , and  . The structure of the government, along with the racial balance of power caused by the idea of a  , has resulted in little incentive for the   of ethnic minorities in   and Malaysia.   The government has historically made little distinction between \"Malay culture\" and \"Malaysian culture\". \n The  , who account for over half the Malaysian population,  play a dominant role politically and are included in a grouping identified as  . Their native language,  , is the national language of the country.  By definition of the  , all Malays are Muslims. The  , the earliest inhabitants of Malaya, formed only 0.5 percent of the total population in Malaysia in 2000,  but represented a majority in East Malaysia, Borneo. In Sarawak and Sabah, most of the non-Muslim indigenous groups are classified as  , and they constitute about 40 percent of the population in the state.  Many tribes have converted to Christianity.  The 140,000  , or aboriginal peoples, comprise a number of different ethnic communities living in peninsular Malaysia. \n The   have been settling in Malaysia for many centuries, and form the second-largest ethnic group.  The first Chinese to settle in the  , primarily in and around  , gradually adopted elements of Malaysian culture and intermarried with the Malaysian community and with this, a new ethnic group called emerged, the   (\"Straits Chinese\"). These Chinese have adopted Malay traditions while maintaining elements of Chinese culture such as their largely   and   religion.  The more common   spoken in Peninsular Malaysia are  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  . \n The   community in Malaysia is the smallest of the three main ethnic groups, accounting for about 10 percent of the country's population. They speak a variety of South Asian languages.   ,  , and   make up over 85 percent of the people of Indian origin in the country. Indian immigrants to Malaysia brought with them the   and   cultures. This included temples and  , cuisine, and clothing. Hindu tradition remains strong in the Indian community of Malaysia. A community of Indians who have adopted Malay cultural practices also exists in  . Though they remain Hindu, the   speak Bahasa Malaysia and dress and act as Malays. \n Some Eurasians of mixed European and Malay descent live in Malaysia. A small community in   are descendants of former Portuguese colonists who married Malay women. While they have adopted Malay culture, they speak their own language and are  . \n Each ethnic group has its own underlying culture that separates it from the others, and they have achieved different levels of integration. The Chinese have integrated with Malay culture in a number of areas, including parts of  , and they form Malayanised groups such as the   in Malacca and the   of  . Their years under combined British rule brought some joint sense of identity to all the ethnic groups, with English ideas and ideals providing some unifying features. A joint Malaysian culture can be seen in the symbiosis of the cultures of the people within it. \n The Malaysian government defined Malaysian culture through the issuance of the \"1971 National Culture Policy\".  It defines three principles as guidelines for Malaysian culture: that it is based on the cultures of indigenous people; that if elements from other cultures are judged suitable and reasonable they may be considered Malaysian culture; and that Islam will be an important part of national culture. \n Some cultural disputes exist between Malaysia and neighbouring  . The two countries share a similar cultural heritage, sharing many traditions and items. However, disputes have arisen over things ranging from culinary dishes to Malaysia's national anthem. Strong feelings exist in Indonesia about protecting that nation's national heritage.  The rivalry between the two countries began during   just after Malaysian independence, when Indonesia and Malaysia were almost at war. Building resentment since then coupled with the economic success of Malaysia mean these feelings are still strong in Indonesia today.  The Malaysian government and the Indonesian government have met to defuse some of the tensions resulting from the overlaps in culture.  Feelings are not as strong in Malaysia, where most recognise that many cultural values are shared. \n One dispute, known as the  , began when Indonesians claimed the   Dance was used in an official Malaysian tourism ad campaign, causing official protests.  This dance, from   in Indonesia, was used only in a   ad, not an ad sponsored by the Malaysian government.  Songs, such as the   song, have caused similar controversies.  The Malaysian national anthem,  , was claimed to be based on a similar Indonesian song written a year earlier. Both tunes are derived from a 19th century French song, which caused the similarity. \n In 2019, plans by the Ministry of Education to introduce of khat (Jawi calligraphy) in the Year 4 Bahasa Melayu syllabus in vernacular schools in the following year became a polemical issue.  Certain parties saw the issue as symptoms of creeping Islamisation while others saw it as beneficial towards the appreciation of a cultural heritage.\n Traditional Malaysian art is mainly centred on the crafts of carving, weaving, and silversmithing.  Traditional art ranges from handwoven baskets from rural areas to the silverwork of the Malay courts. Common artworks included ornamental   and   sets. Luxurious textiles known as   are made, as well as traditional patterned   fabrics. Indigenous East Malaysians are known for their wooden masks. Malaysian art has expanded only recently, as before the 1950s Islamic taboos about drawing people and animals were strong.  Textiles such as the  ,  ,  , and   are used for decorations, often embroidered with a painting or pattern. Traditional jewelry was made from gold and silver adorned with gems, and, in East Malaysia, leather and beads were used to the same effect. \n  has been developed in many areas. The   is a gourd-shaped clay jar that holds water. Perak is famous for these. Also used to store water is the angular  . The   is a clay bowl used to cook, with a wide base that allows heat to spread easily.  Carved wood is used as ornamentation for many items, such as doors and window panels.  Woodcarving was never an industry, but an art. Traditional woodcarvers spent years simply preparing the wood, due to a belief that woodcarvers need to be a perfect match with their wood. The wood also had to match the buyer, so woodcarving was a very ritualised task. \n Each ethnic group has distinct performing arts, with little overlap between them. Malay art shows some North Indian influence.  A form of art called  , incorporating dance and drama, remains strong in the   state.  However, older Malayan-Thai performing arts such as mak yong have declined in popularity throughout the country due to their Hindu-Buddhist origin. Since the Islamisation period, the arts and tourism ministry have focused on newer dances of Portuguese, Middle Eastern, or Mughal origin. Malay traditional dances include joget melayu and  . In recent years,   has grown in popularity, and it is actively promoted by state governments as a cultural icon.    is another popular Malay martial art and dance form, believed to increase a person's spiritual strength.    (shadow puppet theatre) has been popular in Malaysia for centuries.  The puppets are usually made with cow and buffalo skin, and are carved and painted by hand.  Plays done with shadow puppets are often based on traditional stories,  especially tales from the   and the  . Traditionally, theatrical music is performed only by men.  Javanese immigrants brought   to Johor, and is a form of dance where dancers sit on mock horses and tells the tales of Islamic wars. The Chinese communities brought traditional   and   with them, while Indians brought art forms such as   and  . Colonialism also brought other art forms, such as the Portuguese   and  . There are a variety of traditional dances, which often have very strong spiritual significance. Different tribes from west and east Malaysia have different dances. \n Architecture in Malaysia is a combination of many styles, from Islamic and Chinese styles to those brought by European colonists.  Malay architecture has changed due to these influences. Houses in the north are similar to those in Thailand, while those in the south are similar to those in  . New materials, such as glasses and nails, were brought in by Europeans, changing the architecture.   Houses are built for tropical conditions, raised on stilts with high roofs and large windows, allowing air to flow through the house and cool it down.  Wood has been the main building material for much of Malaysia's history; it is used for everything from the simple   to royal palaces.  In   traditional houses are entirely free of nails.  Besides wood, other common materials such as bamboo and leaves were used.  The   in   was built in 1926, and it the only Malay palace with bamboo walls. The Oral Asal of East Malaysia live in   and water villages. Longhouses are elevated and on stilts, and can house 20 to 100 families. Water villages are also built on stilts, with houses connected with planks and most transport by boats. \n Traditional Malay music and performing arts appear to have originated in the  -  region. The music is based around percussion instruments,  the most important of which is the   (drum). There are at least 14 types of traditional drums.  Drums and other traditional percussion instruments are often made from natural materials such as shells.  Other instruments include the rebab (a bowed string instrument), the serunai (a double-reed oboe-like instrument), the seruling (flute), and trumpets. Music is traditionally used for storytelling, celebrating life-cycle events, and at annual events such as the harvest.  Music was once used as a form of long-distance communication.  Traditional orchestra can be divided between two forms, the   which plays melodies using gongs and string instruments, and the   which uses wind instruments to create more solemn music. \n In East Malaysia, ensembles based around   such as   and   are commonly used in ceremonies such as funerals and weddings.  These ensembles are also common in the southern  ,   in Indonesia, and in  .  Chinese and Indian Malaysians have their own forms of music, and the indigenous tribes of Peninsula and East Malaysia have unique traditional instruments.  In countries such as Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia it is believed that performing at the house during Hari Raya (a traditional malay festival) is a good belief as it brings goodluck and fortune to the performers and host of the house.\n Within Malaysia, the largest performing arts venue is the  . The resident orchestra is the  .  Malay popular music is a combination of styles from all ethnicities in the country.  The Malaysian government has taken steps to control what music is available in Malaysia; rap music has been criticised,  heavy metal has been limited,  and foreign bands must submit a recording of a recent concert before playing in Malaysia.  It is believed that this music is a bad influence on youth. \n The strong oral tradition that has existed since before the arrival of writing to what is now Malaysia continues today. These early works were heavily influenced by Indian epics.  Oral literature such as folktales flourished even after printed works appeared.  The Arabic   arrived with the coming of Islam to the peninsula in the late 15th century.  At this point, stories which previously had given lessons in Hinduism and Buddhism were taken to have more universal meanings, with their main story lines remaining intact.  Each of the Malay Sultanates created their own literary tradition influenced by preexisting oral stories and by the stories that came with Islam.  The arrival of the printing press in Malaysia was key in allowing literature to be accessed by more than those rich enough to afford handwritten manuscripts.  There was a division between the royal Malays, who knew English, and the lower classes, who only read Malay.  In the early years of the 20th century, literature began to change to reflect the changing norms of Malaysians.  In 1971 the government took the step of defining the literature of different languages. Literature written in Malay was called \"The National Literature of Malaysia\"; literature in other bumiputra languages was called \"regional literature\"; literature in other languages was called \"sectional literature\". \n Malay poetry is highly developed, and uses many forms.  A   is a traditional narrative, and stories written in that fashion are named using Hikayat followed by the name(s) of the protagonist(s). The   is a form of poetry used in many aspects of Malay culture. The   is another form of narrative, once very popular.  The Hikayat form remains popular, and the pantun has spread from Malay to other languages.  Until the 19th century, literature produced in Malaysia focused mainly on tales of royalty,  as it was produced just for royalty.  It was after this point that it expanded to other areas.  The   strongly influenced literature; the improvements of the economy in the 1980s brought about social changes and new forms of literature. \n The first Malay literature was in Arabic script. The earliest known Malay writing is on the  , made in 1303.  One of the more famous Malay works is the  , also known as the   (meaning \"The Malay Annals\"). It was originally recorded in the 15th century, although it has since been edited;  the known version is from the 16th century. The  , written in the 15th century, is another significant literary work.  The  , or story of  , tells the story of Hang Tuah and his devotion to his Sultan.  This is the most famous Hikayat;  it drew from the  . Both have been nominated as world heritage items under the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) 'Memory of the World' programme.  Folktales such as the  , about a clever mouse deer, are popular, as are adventures such as  , adapted from Indian epics.   (Abdullah bin Abdul Kadir), who lived from 1797 to 1854, is regarded as the father of Malay literature.  , his autobiography, is about everyday life at the time when British influence was spreading.  Female Malay writers began becoming popular in the 1950s. \n Different ethnic and linguistic groups have produced works in their own languages.  Chinese and Indian literature became common as the numbers of speakers increased in Malaysia, and locally produced works based in languages from those areas began to be produced in the 19th century.  Beginning in the 1950s, Chinese literature expanded; homemade literature in Indian languages has failed to emerge. English has become a common literary language. \n Malaysia's cuisine reflects the multiethnic makeup of its population,  and is defined by its diversity.  Many cultures from  Malaysia and the surrounding areas have greatly influenced Malaysian cuisine, with strong influence from Malay, Chinese, Indian, Thai, Javanese, and Sumatran cuisines.  Much of this is due to Malaysia being a part of the ancient  .  The cuisine is very similar to that of Singapore and Brunei,  and also bears resemblance to Filipino cuisine.  The different states of Malaysia have varied dishes,  and often the food in Malaysia is different from the original dishes. \n Sometimes food not found in its original culture is assimilated into another; for example, Chinese restaurants in Malaysia often serve Malaysian dishes.  Food from one culture is sometimes cooked using styles taken from another.  This means that although many Malaysian dishes originate from another culture, they have their own identities.  Often the food in Malaysia is different from the original dishes;  for example, Chinese food is often sweeter in Malaysian versions than the original.  The Peranakans, Chinese who moved to Malaysia centuries ago, have their own unique cuisine that   with Malay ingredients. \n During a dinner food is not served in courses, but all at once.  Rice is popular in many Malaysian dishes. Chilli is commonly found in Malaysian dishes, although this does not make them spicy.  Noodles are common. Pork is rarely used in Malaysia, because of the large Muslim population. Some celebrations have food associated with them, and   are often eaten during  . \n As of 2013 most Muslim Malaysian women wear the  , a type of hijab. This use of the tudung was uncommon prior to the 1979  ,  and the places that had women in tudung tended to be rural areas. The usage of the tudung sharply increased after the 1970s.  as religious conservatism among Malay people in both Malaysia and Singapore increased. \n Several members of the Kelantan   in the 1960s believed the hijab was not mandatory.  By 2015 the Malaysian ulama believed this previous viewpoint was un-Islamic. \n By 2015 Malaysia had a fashion industry related to the tudung.  By 2015 Muslim Malay society had a negative reaction to Muslim women who do not wear tudung. \n Norhayati Kaprawi directed a 2011 documentary about the use of tudung in Malaysia, \"Siapa Aku?\" (\"Who am I?\"). It is in Malay, with English subtitles available. \n Malaysians observe a number of holidays and festivities throughout the year, on both the federal and state level. Other festivals are observed by particular ethnic or religion groups, but are not public holidays. The main holy days of each major religion are public holidays. The most widespread holiday is the \" \" (Independence Day), otherwise known as \"Merdeka\" (Freedom), on 31 August. It commemorates the independence of the  . This, as well as   (1 May), the King's birthday (first Saturday of June), and some other festivals are major national public holidays. Federal Territory day is celebrated in the three Federal territories (on 1 February).    , held on 16 September, commemorates the formation of Malaysia through the union of  ,  ,  , and  , although it is celebrated mainly in East Malaysia. \n New Year's Day, Chinese New Year, and the start of the Islamic calendar are all public holidays.    are highly prominent in Malaysia. The most important of these is   (also called  ),  which is the Malay translation of  . It is a festival honoured by Muslims worldwide marking the end of  , the fasting month. They also celebrate   (also called  , the translation of  ), Awal Muharram ( ) and   (Birthday of the Prophet). \n  typically hold the same festivals observed by Chinese around the world.   is the most prominent, lasting for 15 days. Hindus in Malaysia celebrate  , the festival of light,  while   is a celebration in which pilgrims from all over the country meet at the  .    (Malay for Vesak), the day of Buddha's birth, is a public holiday. Malaysia's Christian community observes most of the holidays observed by Christians elsewhere, most notably Christmas  and Easter. Good Friday, however, is only a public holiday in the two Bornean states. The harvest festivals of   in Sarawak and   in Sabah are also important for East Malaysians. \n Despite most of the festivals being identified with a particular ethnic or religious group, festivities are often participated in by all Malaysians. One example of this is the celebration of  , which is celebrated when Hari Raya Puasa and Chinese New Year coincide. The term   (which means \"sharing the celebration\" in  ) was coined because of the similarity between the word   and the Chinese New Year greeting of  . Similarly, the portmanteau   was coined when Hari Raya Puasa and Deepavali coincided. \n A practice known as \"open house\" ( ) is common during the festivities, especially during Hari Raya Aidilfitri, Deepavali, Chinese New Year, and Christmas. Open house means that all well-wishers are received and that everyone, regardless of background, is invited to attend.  Open houses are normally held at the home of the host and foods are prepared by the host. There are also open houses held at larger public venues, especially when hosted by government agencies or corporations. Most Malaysians take the time off work or school to return to their hometowns to celebrate the festivities with their extended relatives. This practice is commonly known as   and usually causes traffic jams on most highways in the country. \n Popular sports in Malaysia include  ,  ,  ,  , and  .  Malaysia has small-scale traditional sports.   is a traditional form of kite-flying involving kites created with intricate designs. These kites can reach heights of nearly 500 metres (1,640 ft), and due to bamboo attachments create a humming sound when flown.    is a game in which a   ball is kept in the air without using hands.  A traditional game played during the rice harvest season was throwing  , which are large tops weighing around 5 kilograms (11 lb), which are thrown by unfurling a rope and scooped off the ground while spinning. They are known to be able to spin for over an hour.  Other sports are   and   racing. Malaysia's coastline is popular for  ,  , and other water sports and activities.    and   are also often done. \n Many international sports are highly popular in Malaysia. Badminton matches in Malaysia attract thousands of spectators, and Malaysia, along with Indonesia and China, has consistently held the   since 1949.  Famous players include  .  The Malaysian Lawn Bowls Federation (PLBM) was registered in 1997,  and already fields a strong international team  and has made progress on the international stage.    was brought to Malaysia by members of the British army, with the first competition being held in 1939. The Squash Racquets Association of Malaysia (SRAM) was created on 25 June 1972, and has had great success in Asian squash competitions.  Football is popular in Malaysia,  and Malaysia has proposed a Southeast Asian   league.  Hockey is popular in Malaysia, with the   ranked 14th in the world as of 2010.  Malaysia hosted the third   at the   in Kuala Lumpur, before also hosting the 10th cup.  Malaysia has its own   track, the  . It runs for 310.408 kilometres (193 mi), and held its first   in 2000.  Golf is growing in popularity, with many courses being built around the country. \n The Federation of Malaya Olympic Council was formed in 1953, and received recognition by the   in 1954. It first participated in the  . The council was renamed the   in 1964, and   in all but one Olympic games since the council was formed. The largest number of athletes sent to the Olympics was 57, to the  .  Malaysian athletes have won a total of four Olympic medals, all of which are in badminton.  Malaysia has competed at the   since 1950 as Malaya, and 1966 as Malaysia. It has been dominant in badminton, and hosted the games in Kuala Lumpur in 1998.  The   were the first time the torch relay went through more nations than just England and the host country. \n Much of the Malaysian media is tied to the ruling UMNO party,  with the county's main newspaper owned by the government and political parties in the ruling coalition.  Major opposition parties also have their own newspapers.  Besides Malay newspapers, there is large circulation of English, Chinese, and Tamil dailies.  The media has been blamed for increasing tension between Indonesia and Malaysia, and giving Malaysians a bad image of Indonesians.  There is a divide between the media in the two halves of Malaysia. Peninsular-based media gives low priority to news from East Malaysia, and often treats it as a colony of the Peninsular.  Internet access is rare outside the main urban centres,  and those of the lower classes have less access to non-government news sources. \n The regulated   has been criticised, and it has been claimed that the government threatens journalists with reduced employment opportunities and denial of family admittance to universities.  The Malaysian government has previously tried to crack down on opposition papers before elections when the ruling party was unsure of its political situation.  In 2007, a government agency issued a directive to all private television and radio stations to refrain from broadcasting speeches made by opposition leaders,  a move condemned by politicians from the opposition  .  Sabah, where only one tabloid is not independent of government control, has the freest press in Malaysia.  Legislation such as the   has been cited as curtailing freedom of expression.  The Malaysian government has large control over the media due to this Act, which stipulates that a media organisation must have the government's permission to operate. However, the \"Bill of Guarantee of No Internet Censorship\" passed in the 1990s means that internet news is uncensored. \n Malaysian filming has gone through five stages. The first stage occurred when narrative filmmaking began in 1933, with the production of   by a company operating out of Singapore. For the first couple of decades following  , most films were directed by directors from   and the  , which produced a second stage of movies. The first locally directed film,  , was produced in 1952. It however failed in the cinemas. A third stage appeared as Singapore-based studios began to produce films in the 1950s, but the industry was subsequently damaged due to independence of Singapore and the loss of studios there. Indonesian films gained popularity at this time, although a small group of filmmakers continued to produce in Malaysia, forming the fourth stage. In the 1980s the local industry began to recover, bringing about the fifth and most eloquent stage, which covered more themes than any previous stage. This was also the first time non-Malay films began to have a significant presence. \n The government began to sponsor films in 1975, creating the   in 1981.  Through this the government offers loans to filmmaker's who want to develop films, however the criteria for obtaining funds has been criticised as promoting only commercial films. Due to this lack of government funding for smaller projects, a strong independent film movement has developed. There has been a large increase in short films, which in the past two decades have begun to gain status in international film festivals. Independent documentaries often cover areas which would normally be censored by the government, such as sex and sexuality, as well as racial inequality and tension. Although the government has criticised some films for not showing multiculturalism, its actions have been inconsistent in that respect, and often favour the Malay culture over others. \n"},
{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culture_of_Saudi_Arabia", "content": "\n\n The cultural setting of   is greatly influenced by the   and  . The society is in general deeply religious, conservative, traditional, and family-oriented. Many attitudes and traditions are centuries-old, derived from Arab civilization and Islamic heritage. However, its culture has also been affected by rapid change, as the country was transformed from an impoverished nomadic society into a rich commodity producer in just a few years in the 1970s. This change has also been affected by and the result of a number of factors including the communications revolution and external scholarships. The most recent ruler or king of Saudi is King  . \n The   Islamic movement, which arose in the 18th century and is sometimes described as austerely puritanical, now predominates in the country. Following the principle of \" \", there are many limitations and prohibitions on behavior and dress which are strictly enforced both legally and socially, often more so than in other Muslim countries.  However, many of the traditional restrictions have been lifting recently by the government including allowing women to drive and many other female-related issues.  On the other hand, the things prohibited by Islam are banned in the country, for example, alcoholic beverages are strictly prohibited.\n Daily life is dominated by Islamic observance. Five times each day, Muslims are called to prayer from the minarets of mosques scattered throughout the country. Because Friday is the holiest day for Muslims, the weekend is Friday to Saturday.  In accordance with Wahhabi doctrine, only two religious holidays,   and  , were publicly recognized, until 2006 when a non-religious holiday, the September 23 national holiday (which commemorates the  ) was reintroduced.  In terms of gender relations, Saudi Arabia's norms usually  . \n The land of Hijaz, particularly Makkah and Madinah, is the place where Islam was firstly established. Thus, the majority of its population are Muslims. Moreover, Qur’an is considered the constitution of Saudi Arabia and the Islamic law \"sharia’\" is the main legal source. In Saudi Arabia, Islam is not just adhered politically by the government but also it has a great influence on the people's culture and everyday life. \n 90% of the Saudi citizens are Sunni Muslims while 10% belong to Shia's school. 80% of Shia’ are twelvers who live in the Eastern province of Saudi Arabia and Madinah. In Najran Province there are approximately 700,000 seveners Shia’. Moreover, the majority of expatriate in Saudi Arabia are Muslims. \n Unlike many other Muslim countries, Saudi Arabia has been following a strict version of Islam where for example, men and women are segregated in universities.  Another example of the strict adherence to Islamic values can be seen in women who are required to wear the traditional ”abaya” (long, fully covered dress). However, women are no longer required to wear abayas in public but are required to dress modestly as a form of respecting the Saudi culture.  Additionally, Saudi Arabia is the only Muslim country where shops and other public facilities are required to close during prayer time which takes place five times a day and employees and customers are sent off to pray.  Thus, the \" \" (also known as   or  ), who patrol the streets \" \" by enforcing  , strict  , attendance at prayer ( ) five times each day, the ban on alcohol, and other aspects of   (Islamic law) or behavior it believes to be commanded by Islam. Cinema theatres were shut down in 1980, for example. However, Saudi Arabia has reopened cinema theaters since April 2018. \n The kingdom uses not the international  , but the lunar  , with the start of each lunar month determined not ahead of time by astronomical calculation, but only after the crescent moon is sighted by the proper religious authorities.  Civil workers in the governmental sector used to receive their salaries not according to the international Gregorian calendar, but the lunar Islamic calendar. However, the Gregorian calendar has been followed by many international companies operating in the country. Moreover, by 2016, a number of reforms took place in Saudi Arabia. One of them was to use the Gregorian calendar to pay for the civil servants. This measure has been taken to reduce the governmental spending as employees have lost 11 payment days. \n \n Friday is the holiest day for Muslims. Thus, the weekend in Saudi Arabia was Thursday-Friday.  In 2013, the late King Abdullah Al-Saud issued a royal decree switching the weekend to become on Friday-Saturday.  This step was taken to reduce the adverse effects suffered by Saudi businesses  due to the difference in weekdays and weekends between Saudi Arabia and the other regional and international counterparts.  Like all other Muslims, on Fridays Saudis attend Jomua’h prayer that is held by afternoon and accompanied with a sermon. \n \n Ramadan, the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, is a holy month for all Muslims. In Saudi Arabia, this month is especially important and different as the lifestyle of the people gets more spiritual. During the month, Muslims fast from dawn to dusk. Thus, in Saudi Arabia, the working hours are reduced as most of the employees go two hours later than usual. Moreover, friends and families gather by sunset to enjoy breaking their fast together. By night and particularly after the obligatory Isha’ prayer, people stay in mosques to pray the voluntary prayer of Taraweeh. Before the dawn prayer, Fajr, families wake up to eat Suhur, their last meal before they start fasting. \n Saudi Arabia celebrates two public holidays, namely, ʿĪd al-Fiṭr and ʿĪd al-Aḍḥā. Id al-Fitr comes after the holy month of Ramadan and employees enjoy a customary 5 to 10 days away from work. Id al-Adha comes by the end of Hajj -pilgrimage- and employees get similar off days. However, some other religious days that are considered as public holidays in other Muslim countries are not given days off in Saudi Arabia including, the Islamic New Year, Mawlid Alnabi – Prophet Muhammad's Birthday – and ‘Ashura day. \n \"Fierce religious resistance\" had to be overcome to permit such innovations as paper money (in 1951), female education (1964), and television (1965) and the abolition of slavery (1962).  There were a number of   targeting foreigners between 2001 and 2004, but these have been brought under control. \n Public support for the traditional political/religious structure of the kingdom is so strong that one researcher interviewing Saudis found virtually no support for reforms to secularize the state. Even the small minority of Westernized and liberal Saudis expressed \"a desire for the kingdom to remain a Muslim society ruled by an overtly Muslim state.\" \n Because of religious restrictions, Saudi culture lacks any diversity of religious expression or buildings but annual festivals such as the Janadriah Festival which celebrates Saudi Culture, custom and handicraft held in a specialized arena just north of Riyadh and public events such as The Annual Book Fair are open to the public and are very popular although policed by the religious police. \n The festivals (such as  ) and communal public worship  of Shia Muslims who make up an estimated 10-15%  are suppressed. Celebration of other (non-Wahhabi) Islamic holidays, such as the   and the Day of Ashura (an important holiday for Shiites), are tolerated only when celebrated locally and on a small scale.  Shia also face systematic discrimination in employment, education, the justice system according to  . \n No churches, temples or other non-Muslim houses of worship permitted in the country (although there are nearly a million Christians as well as   and   among the foreign workers).  Foreign workers are not allowed to celebrate Christmas or Easter,  and reportedly private prayer services are forbidden in practice. \nAnd at least one religious minority, the  , are banned with adherents being deported according to a 2007 report by Human Rights Watch. \n  by non-Muslims and   is illegal.  According to the HeartCry Missionary Society, in 2014 the Saudi government \"issued an official statement signifying that capital punishment may now be used\" on those who distribute the Bible and all other \"publications that have prejudice to any other religious belief other than Islam.\" \n In legal   court cases ( ) non-Muslim are awarded less than Muslims.  Atheists are legally designated as terrorists. \n Saudi society lives within the circle of customs and traditions in which it was ingrained by the Arab culture of Islam and the Islamic culture, but the regions of the Kingdom differ from each other in the customs of clothing, food, dialects, songs, and even in marriage traditions, and the family in Saudi Arabia is the most important social institution, so the bonds are strong between their members  Among them is the concept of obedience and mutual respect. \n A large portion of the original inhabitants of the area that is now Saudi were desert nomads known as  . They remain a significant and very influential minority of the indigenous Saudi population, though many who call themselves \"bedou\" no longer engage in \"traditional tribal activities of herding sheep and riding camels.\"  According to authors Harvey Tripp and Peter North, Bedouin make up most of the  , religious leaders and   (which protects the throne) of the country. Bedouin culture is \"actively\" preserved by the government. \n Greetings in Saudi Arabia have been called \"formal and proscribed\" and lengthy. Saudis (men) tend \"to take their time and converse for a bit when meeting.\" Inquiries \"about health and family\" are customary, but never about a man's wife, as this \"is considered disrespectful.\" \nSaudi men are known for the physical affection they express towards total strangers (i.e. Saudi male strangers), thought by some to be a continuation of the desert tradition of offering strangers hospitality to ensure their survival. \n The religion and customs of Saudi Arabia dictate not only conservative dress for men and women, but a uniformity of dress unique to most of the Middle East.  Traditionally, the different regions of Saudi have had different dress, but since the re-establishment of Saudi rule these have been reserved for festive occasions, and \"altered if not entirely displaced\" by the dress of the homeland of their rulers (i.e.  ). \n Many women normally wear an  , a long black cloak that covers all but the hands and face in public despite this not being required.  (Modest dress is compulsory for women in Islam but the color black for women and white for men is apparently based on tradition not religious scripture. ) Some Saudi women wear a full face veil, such as a   or a  . Women's clothes are often decorated with tribal motifs, coins, sequins, metallic thread, and appliques. Saudi Arabia has recently relaxed the dress code for women. \n In recent years it is common to wear Western dress underneath the  . (Foreign women in Saudi Arabia are \"encouraged\" by the religious police to wear an  , or at least cover their hair according to  .  Authors Harvey Tripp and Peter North encourage women to wear an abaya in \"more conservative\" areas of the kingdom, i.e. in the interior. )\n Saudi men and boys, whatever their job or social status, wear the traditional dress called a   or  , which has been called the \"Arabic dress\".  During warm and hot weather, Saudi men and boys wear white thobes. During the cool weather, wool thobes in dark colors are not uncommon. At special times, men often wear a   or   over the thobe. These are long white, brown or black cloaks trimmed in metallic thread. A man's headdress consists of three things: the  , a small white cap that keeps the   from slipping off the head; the   itself, which is a large square of cloth; and the  , a doubled black cord that holds the   in place. Not wearing an igal is considered a sign of piety. The gutra is usually made of cotton and traditionally is either all white or a red and white checked. The gutra is worn folded into a triangle and centred on the head.\n Among young men, since around 2000, Western dress, particularly T-shirts and jeans have become quite common leisure wear, particularly in the Eastern Province. \nTraditional footwear has been leather sandals but most footwear is now imported.   Saudi Arabia has recently relaxed the dress code for women. \n Employment does not play the same part in native Saudi society as in some others. With enormous petroleum export earnings beginning in the mid-1970s the Saudi economy was not dependent on income from productive employment. Economists \"estimate only 30–40 percent\" of working-age Saudis \"hold jobs or actively seek work,\"  and most employed Saudis have less-than-demanding jobs with the government. \n \nAs of 2008, 90% of those employed in the private sector were foreigners,  and several decades long efforts to replace significant numbers of them with Saudis have been unsuccessful. \n One explanation for this culture of leisure is the hot, dry climate of the peninsula which allowed nomadic herding but permitted agriculture only in a small area (the southwest corner). Like other nomadic herders worldwide, the ancestors of most Saudis did not develop the habits (so-called \"work ethic\"), skills, infrastructure, etc. of agricultural societies \"that lead ultimately to present-day industrialisation\".  As a consequence, \"Saudis have rarely worked in the sense that other nationalities have worked. No product-based commercial economy existed until oil\" was discovered. \n Traditionally social life in the kingdom has revolved around the home and family.  Saudis regularly visit family members, particularly those of an older generation. For women, most of whom have their own jobs,  it is routine (in fact the only outside activity ) to pay visits to each other during the day, though the ban on women driving can make transportation a problem. The ban was lifted in 2017. \n For men, traditional hours involve a nap in late afternoon (after work if they are employed), and then socializing that begins after   (roughly between 5 and 6:30 pm) and can last until well after midnight. Men gather in groups (known as   or  ) of close friends of similar age, background, and occupation. Men typically relax, and joke while smoking   and playing balot (a card game), and have a meal around midnight before returning home. The groups may meet in    in each other's homes or a residence rented for the occasion. \n Being part of a closed, family-oriented society, Saudis tend to prefer to do business with, socialize with, and communicate with family members rather than outsiders, be they foreigners, or Saudis from other clans.  Extended families tend to live in family compounds in cities whenever possible and stay in contact by cellphone when not.  It is customary for elder family member to use their influence ( ) for the benefit of family members, particularly for employment and advancement in the large Saudi government bureaucracy  where most Saudis work. \n Traditionally, in Saudi Arabia (and other Gulf countries), families arrange   with the tribe  or family's considerations in mind. Forced marriage has also taken place.  Sons and daughters have been encouraged to \"marry cousins or other relatives in order to increase and strengthen\" the extended family or tribe, \n\"or occasionally to marry into another tribe in order to heal rifts\". At least in the 1990s, most marriages in Saudi were \"consanguineous\"—i.e. between close relatives—sometimes a second cousin but usually a first cousin.  and marriage between cousins in Saudi is among the highest rate in the world.  The practice has been cited as a factor in higher rates of   (which affects about 32% of adult Saudis),   (which affects 33%),  and higher rates of severe genetic diseases like   or a blood disorder, \n ,  ,  , deafness and muteness. \nAs a consequence of frequent  ,   is a growing field in Saudi Arabia. \n Traditionally men having more than one wife ( ) was \"fairly common\", but marriage has become increasingly monogamous as income has declined and western ideas of mutual compatibility between husband and wife have taken hold. \n Saudi Arabia allows the traditional practice of \"triple talaq\"  , where a man can divorce his wife simply by saying ‘I divorce you’ ( ) three times. He can rescind the divorce if this was done in the heat of the moment, but only if the wife agrees (and only on three occasions). The husband must maintain a divorced wife and any children from the marriage if the wife is unable to support herself, although she may have trouble receiving timely payments.  Children generally remain with their mother until about five or six, after which boys return to their father to begin their formal education.  The husband can claim custody of any sons when they reach the age of ten. Girls more often remain with their mother.  A female divorcee usually returns to her family, and few remarry. Despite the liberality of divorce laws, divorce is not commonplace outside of the royal family where it is \"endemic\". )\n Divorce for women who have been abandoned by their husbands in Saudi Arabia has been criticized for being slow. \nDivorce initiated by a wife ( ) is unusual in the kingdom even if a husband has been unfaithful, abused or deserted his wife, or engaged in criminal activity.\nFor female initiated   in Saudi, a wife must go to a court for the case to be heard. \n Saudi is one of ten countries where homosexuality is punishable by death (the punishment of stoning to death may be applied to married men who've engaged in homosexual acts or any non-Muslim married or unmarried who commits homosexual acts with a Muslim ) as well as fines,  , prison time, on first offense. In April 2020, the Saudi Supreme Court abolished the flogging punishment, and replaced it with jail time or fines or both. \n As in other   and especially  , Saudi customs include avoiding certain practices, such as:\n Observers have noted the importance of custom and tradition in Saudi society. Folk beliefs such as \"which foot to step first into the bathroom with, or urinating on the wheel of a new car to ward off the evil eye,\" hold an important place. \n Older brothers—even if older by only a few days—should have their hand kissed by younger brothers, sit above them on formal occasions, enter a room before them. \n Women who go on even short trips of a few days are expected to visit senior relatives and even close neighbors to bid them goodbye, and upon returning, make another round of visits to the same individuals to pay her respects and dispense small gifts.  Saudis may \"require four to six months\" to check their plans with extended family before finalizing them. \n One observer has noted that \"through their love of language, Saudis are swayed more by words rather than ideas and more by ideas than facts.\"  While vigorous public arguments (\"shouting matches\") may be commonplace, it \"is most unusual to see a Saudi strike another Saudi.\" This emphasis on rhetoric is reflected in foreign affairs where, for example, the government \"regularly condemns the State of   in the most vehement and bloodcurdling terms but rarely takes action.\" \n Many outsiders are struck by the superficial resemblance of Saudi cities (at least the major cities such as Jeddah, Riyadh and the eastern province), with their superhighways, shopping malls and fast food, to those of   western cities and suburbs. \n As late as 1970, most Saudis lived a subsistence life in the rural provinces, but the kingdom has urbanized rapidly in the last half of the 20th century. As of 2012 about 80% of Saudis live in urban metropolitan areas, specifically  ,  , or  . \n Saudi houses and housing compounds are often noted for the high walls (3 or 4 metres high) surrounding them, explained as useful in keeping out sandstorms  and/or reflective of the families' self-contained outlook on the world. \n Like many people throughout the world, many Saudis derive \"much pleasure and pride\" in their homes. Saudis enjoy decorating rooms of their homes in \"all the colours of the spectrum\" and display   of many different styles together. \"Clashes of colour and culture are the norm, not the exception,\" with the value of an artefact, \"rather than consistency of style\" being the major criterion of display. Foreigners may also be struck by the lack of finishing touches in construction (\"Electrical switches may protrude from the wall supported only by their wiring\") or maintenance (\"Piles of masonry are likely to lie scattered beside and on the streets of expensive suburbs\"). \n Saudi Arabia, and specifically the  , as the cradle of Islam, has many of the most significant historic Muslim sites, including the two holiest sites of   and  .  One of the King's titles is  , the two mosques being   in Mecca (which contains Islam's most sacred place, the  ), and   in Medina, which contains Muhammad's tomb. \n However, Saudi Wahhabism doctrine is hostile! to any reverence given to historical or religious places of significance for fear that it may give rise to   (that is, idolatry). As a consequence, under Saudi rule, an estimated 95% of Mecca's historic buildings, most over a thousand years old,   for religious reasons.  Critics claim that over the last 50 years, 300 historic sites linked to Muhammad, his family or companions have been lost,  leaving fewer than 20 structures remaining in Mecca that date back to the time of Muhammad. \n Demolished structures include the mosque originally built by Muhammad's daughter  , and other mosques founded by   (Muhammad's father-in-law and the first  ),   (the second Caliph),   (Muhammad's son-in-law and the fourth Caliph), and   (another of Muhammad's companions).  Other historic buildings that have been destroyed include the house of  , the wife of Muhammad, the house of  , now the site of the local  ; the house of Ali-Oraid, the grandson of Muhammad, and the Mosque of abu-Qubais, now the location of the King's palace in Mecca. \n While women were forbidden to drive motor vehicles until June 24, 2018  and were consequently limited in mobility, they traditionally have often had considerable informal power in the home. According to journalist Judith Miller, \"some Saudi women were veritable tyrants in their own homes. They decided where their children would go to school, when and whom they would marry, whether their husbands would accept new jobs, with whom the family socialized, and where the family would live and spend vacations. They promoted their friends' husbands, sons and relatives to key jobs.\"  David Long, a former American diplomat who had taught in the kingdom, has described Saudi men as \"the world's most henpecked\". \n Outside the home, a number of Saudi women have risen to the top of some professions or otherwise achieved prominence; for example, Dr.   is head of the ophthalmology department at   in Riyadh and was the late King Fahad's personal  .  However employment for women is limited, and urban middle and upper-class women spend much time in socializing with the extended family and close friends.  Writing in   Marrianne Alireza noted: \"For city women like us the only activity besides living communally within the extended family was leaving our quarters to visit other women in their quarters.\" \n As of 2014, child marriage is still legal \nbut no longer common,  with the average   among Saudi females being 25 years old.  However, in 2019 Members of the Saudi Shoura Council in 2019 approved fresh regulations for minor marriages that will see to outlaw marrying off 15-year-old children and force the need for court approval for those under 18. Chairman of the Human Rights Committee at the Shoura Council, Dr. Hadi Al-Yami, said that introduced controls were based on in-depth studies presented to the body. He pointed out that the regulation, vetted by the Islamic Affairs Committee at the Shoura Council, has raised the age of marriage to 18 and prohibited it for those under 15.   Female literacy (81%) is lower than that of males,  but the percentage of university graduates who are women (60%) is higher. \n While the kingdom states that the status of women is \"a very noble and lofty one\", according to leading Islamic scholars, women in Saudi do not have equal rights with men.  Outside of Saudi, foreign sources have shown that discrimination of women is a significant problem and that there is an absence of laws criminalizing violence against women. \nThe   2010   ranked Saudi Arabia 129th out of 134 countries for gender parity. \n Under Saudi law, every adult female must have a male relative as her \"guardian\",  whose permission she is required to have in order to travel, study, or work.  The guardian is legally entitled to make a number of critical decisions on a woman's behalf.  However, women above 18 will soon be allowed to travel abroad without taking their guardians permission as a new law is going to be enacted in this regards in 2019.  In August 2019, the law has been already enacted and women above 21 are allowed to travel without a prior permission.  The law came into effect at the end of August 2019. \n In the courts, the testimony of a woman equals half of a man's and the testimony of one man equals that of two women  .  Men are  , but women are permitted no more than one husband.  Men need no legal justification to unilaterally divorce their wives ( ),  while a woman can only obtain a divorce with the consent of her husband or judicially if her husband has harmed her.  With regard to the law of inheritance, the Quran specifies that fixed portions of the deceased's estate must be left to the \" \"  and so daughters of the deceased will receive half of their brothers. \n Saudi women's lives are also shaped by Wahhabi religious policy of strict gender segregation. In health, obesity is a problem among middle and upper class Saudi women, who have domestic servants to do traditional work and have limited ability to leave their house.  School sports for girls is forbidden, but as of April 2014, Saudi authorities in the education ministry have been asked by the   to consider lifting that ban (with the proviso that any sports conform to Sharia rules on dress and gender segregation, according to the official SPA news agency). \n In the public sphere restaurants have specially designated family sections women are required to use. They are also required to wear an   and at the very least cover their hair.  Women, until June 2018 were forbidden to drive (though exception prior to 2018 were usually made in rural areas).  (These restrictions are usually enforced by the \"religious police\", known as the  . ) Women have been promised the vote in  . \n Like many Muslim countries of the Middle East, Saudi Arabia has a high population growth rate and high percentage of its population under 30 years of age. Estimates of the   of Saudi Arabia vary:\n Factors such as the decline in per capita income from the failure of oil revenue to keep up with population growth, exposure to youth lifestyles of the outside world, lack of access to quality education and employment opportunity, change in child rearing practices and attitudes towards the ruling royal family—indicate their lives and level of satisfaction will be different than the generation before them.\n In recent decades, child rearing in Saudi Arabia has increasingly been handled by hired servants. \nSince foreign labour is cheap and common, even families of modest means usually have servants.  In richer families, each child may have an individual servant. \n However, unlike parents, servants can be fired/sacked and are often neither Muslims nor Arabs. Consequently, according to at least one observer (John R. Bradley), they both \"lack the authority... to discipline those in their care\", and the ability and knowledge to \"pass down by example the core Islamic values and traditions that have always formed the bedrock of Saudi society.\" \n Unlike their parents, who grew up during the oil boom of the 1970s and saw their standard of living rise from poverty to affluence, Saudis born \"in the 1980s and 1990s have no memory of the impoverished Arabia prior to the oil boom and thus express almost no sense of appreciation.\" \n Instead, they have experienced a kingdom of poor schools, overcrowded universities, and declining job opportunities.. Moreover, their royal rulers' profligate and often non-Islamic lifestyles are increasingly transparent to Saudis and stand in sharp contrast both to Al Saud religious pretensions and to their own declining living standards.\" Saudi youth are exposed to youth lifestyles of the outside world via the internet, as dating, and concerts are banned in their country. However, in 2017 concerts were no longer banned in Saudi Arabia.  Public fields for soccer are scarce. Even shopping malls do not allow young men unless they are accompanied by a female relative. \nAs of 2014, men are no longer required to have a female relative to be able to enter shopping malls.  Insofar as young people have a tendency to \"resent authority, reject rules, and seek to exert their independence,\" youth rebellion is more problematic because the number of \"restrictions and conventions against which youth can rebel\" in the kingdom is far larger than in most societies.  The average age of the king and crown prince is 74,  while 50–60% of Saudis are under twenty, creating a significant generation gap between rulers and ruled. \n In a 2011 survey, 31% of Saudi youth agreed with the statement `traditional values are outdated and ... I am keen to embrace modern values and beliefs`—the highest percentage in the ten Arab countries surveyed. \nThe number who had confidence about the direction of their country dropped from 98% (in 2010) to 62%. \nWhile in most societies these numbers might seem unremarkable, in Saudi Arabia any rebellion stands out against \"the unquestioning acceptance ... of previous generations\". \n Nearly two-thirds of university graduates earn degrees in Islamic subjects, \nwhere job prospects are in the public sector, dependent on government revenues. However, funding for public sector may decline not expand in coming years. At least some experts expect the kingdom's expenditures to \"exceed its oil revenues as soon as 2014.\" \n Unemployment among 20- to 24-year-olds is 39% – 45% for women and 30.3% for men—compared to an official unemployment rate of 10% circa 2012. \n The sport of   also called \"drifting\" or joyriding—illegal  -like phenomenon of generally non-modified factory-setup rental cars at very high speeds, around 160–260 km/h (100–160 mph), across wide highways   that is especially popular in the margins of society—has been noted by observers.  A 2004 school survey carried out in the kingdom's three biggest cities found that 45% of teenage boys were involved to some degree in joyriding. \nThe sport has been described as \"tyre-burning acrobatics often in stolen or `borrowed` cars before a flash-mob of youthful admirers,As a dangerous, illegal and so unregulated activity, crashes and fatalities sometimes occur. \n Since the 1960s there has been a significant number of guest workers/foreign expatriates allowed into Saudi on work visas, and these now make up around 20–30% of the population of the country. Guest workers range in occupation from high skilled workers (employed to do jobs Saudis cannot do), to manual service workers (doing jobs Saudis \"will not do\").  A number of sources describe a \"pecking order\" among workers established by factors such as the importance of your employer,  and country of origin. One source places workers from Gulf oil producing countries at the top,  another places Americans there,  but all agree that Nationals from places like  ,   and   are at the bottom.  While foreign workers from Western countries are now a small minority, numbering only approximately 100,000,  most of whom live in   or  .\n With a large number of unemployed Saudis, a growing population and need for government spending but stagnating oil revenues with which to pay foreign workers, the large number of expats has come to be seen as \"an enormous problem\" that \"distorts\" the Saudi economy and \"keeps young people out of the labour market.\" \n In October 2011, the Saudi Labour Ministry put a \"ceiling\" on the number of guest workers at 20% of the Saudi population, requiring a reduction of foreign population by up to three million over several years. \nIn March 2013, a campaign was initiated to \"get rid of its illegal foreign workers, control the legal ones\", and lower native-born Saudi unemployment.  Approximately one million Bangladeshis, Indians,  , Nepalis, Pakistanis and Yemenis left between the campaign's beginning and the deadline (November 4, 2013), with authorities planning to expel another one million illegal foreigners in 2014.  Ethiopians were a particular target of the campaign, with thousands expelled.  Various human rights entities have criticised Saudi Arabia's handling of the issue.  Prior to this workers were sometimes not hired or expelled as a way of registering Saudi disapproval of the workers' country. Saudi Arabia expelled 800,000 Yemenis in 1990 and 1991 during the   due to Yemen's support for Saddam Hussein against Saudi Arabia,  and cut the number of Bangladeshis allowed to enter Saudi in 2013 after the Bangladeshi government cracked down on the Islamist   party there. \n The   was constructed by Saudi Arabia against an influx of   and against the smuggling of drugs and weapons. \nA 2004 law passed by Saudi Arabia's Council of Ministers, entitles Muslim    of all nationalities (except Palestinian) who have resided in the kingdom for ten years to apply for citizenship with priority being given to holders of degrees in various scientific fields.  (The estimated 240,000   living in Saudi Arabia are excluded, because of   agreement instructions barring the Arab states from granting them citizenship of another Arab state.)\n Treatment of foreign workers is also an issue. According to  , as of 2014, there was a \"worrying trend\" of expatriate domestic workers filing \"complaints of exploitation and abuse\" only to face counter-allegations by their employers of \"theft, witchcraft or adultery.\"  41 expat workers from just one country, Indonesia, faced \"possible death sentences\" in Saudi Arabia on charges \"ranging from black magic to stealing, adultery and murder\". \n In 2014 Saudi men were banned from marrying women from Bangladesh, Pakistan, Myanmar and Chad. \n The history of slavery in the Arabian Peninsula goes back hundreds of years, but with time the racism of slavery in the Arabian Peninsula disappeared\n Today, Saudis follow many of their traditional habits, especially in food and drinks. As many Saudies are originally descended from tribes of sheep and goat herders, many Saudi dishes are mainly made of sheep meat. \n  is similar to that of the surrounding countries in the Arabian Peninsula, and has been heavily influenced by Turkish, Persian, and African food. Animals are slaughtered in accordance with    , which consider pork forbidden ( ) and alcohol forbidden ( ). As a general rule, Saudis (like other Muslims) consider impure pork to be disgusting, but forbidden alcohol a temptation. Consequently, dietary laws regarding the former are more strictly observed than those regarding the latter. \n People of Saudi Arabia are restricted by the religious norms related to food and drink. Thus, alcohol is prohibited in Islam and, accordingly, it is prevented in the country.  Furthermore, pork is also prohibited and Saudis do not eat it. Nevertheless, cows, sheep, chicken and other types of animals can't be eaten unless they are slaughtered according to the Islamic law. \n A dish consisting of a stuffed lamb, known as  , is the traditional  .   are popular, as is  , a marinated grilled meat dish of  , mutton, or  , sometimes wrapped in flat bread. As in other Arab countries of the Arabian Peninsula,   ( ), a rice dish with   or  , is popular. Flat, unleavened bread is a staple of virtually every meal, as are   and fresh fruit. Coffee, served in the  , is the traditional beverage. \n The appearance of modern supermarkets and commercial restaurants starting in the 1970s has changed Saudi culinary habits. International cuisine, particularly fast food, has become popular in all Saudi urban areas (i.e. in 80% of the country). \nWhile traditionally Saudis ate sitting on the floor using the right hand or flat bread to take food from a roasted lamb, goat or camel carcass,  the practice of eating while sitting on a chair at a table has become more standard practice, if not the use of knives and forks. \n Coffee is often served \"with great ceremony\", and it is customary to drink two or three cups to indicate your approval of the coffee. Cups are refilled unless a gesture—shaking your cup—is made to indicate you've had enough.  It is considered good manners for a guest to eat heartily. \n Saudi Arabia is a deserted country where many oases can be found. Accordingly, over 18 million date palms are planted in the country and 600 million pounds of date are produced every year. Thus, dates are considered one of the main and permanent fruit in Saudi Arabia, particularly in Ramadan when dates are eaten in sunset by fasters to break their fast. Additionally, dates are eaten as a snack and many Saudi desserts are made of dates.  Besides dates, numerous kinds of foodstuffs are planted in Saudi Arabia, including wheat, rice, beans, watermelon and others. Animals, such as goats, sheep, cows and camels are also nurtured in the country. \n Educated Saudis are well informed of issues of the  , the  , and the world at large, but freedom of the press and   are not recognized by the government.  The \"Basic Law\" of the kingdom states that the media's role is to educate and inspire national unity, and are prohibited from acts that lead \"to disorder and division\".  News stories, public speeches and other acts of personal expression cannot conflict with traditional Islamic values, or dissent from government policy, insult government officials, especially the royal family, and cannot delve too deeply into certain sensitive and taboo subject matters that might embarrass the government or spread dissent, i.e. the role of women in Saudi society, the treatment of  , damage caused by natural disasters, or social problems such as the AIDS-HIV pandemic and human trafficking. \n Most Saudi Arabian newspapers are privately owned but subsidized and regulated by the government. \nAs of 2013,   reported that criticism of the government and royal family and the questioning of Islamic tenets \"are not generally tolerated. Self-censorship is pervasive.\"  As of 2014,   rates the kingdom's press and internet \"Not Free\".\n Labor unions and political parties are prohibited in the kingdom, although a few underground political parties do exist. The government has created a national \" \" (which is appointed not elected, and does not pass laws), and has given permission for certain \"societies\" to exist (though they have little ability to influence government policy). \nInformal public discussion of public policy is not actively encouraged, although it is not expressly   per se, unless it is deemed to be promoting immorality, dissent or disloyalty.  Limited non-partisan municipal elections were held in 2005.\n The most popular sport in Saudi Arabia is Association football (soccer) in both in participation and viewing.  It is governed by the   that was founded in 1956. Football manager   has commented that with all “the different perceptions” held by the Western world, those living there “definitely don’t understand the culture [of Saudi Arabia] in all its details”. \n There are 60 football clubs participating in three main professional football league levels; the   involving 16 football clubs,   with 20 clubs and Second Division with 24 clubs. The demotics competitions also include some cups such as King club, Crown Prince Cup and Saudi Super Cup. \n The Saudi Arabia national football team has qualified five times for   competitions, in 1994, 1998, 2002,  2006, and most recently, in 2018.  Moreover, it qualified for the AFC Asian Cup 10 times and had won three of them. \n Recently, some Saudi players have become skilled enough to play in Europe. The players were sent to Spain to play in the   aiming to improve their skills better. \n  is also popular. The   won the bronze medal at the 1999 Asian Championship.\n Horse racing is also another diversion in Saudi Arabia which has a historical and cultural legacy where Friday afternoon is the traditional time of horse racing in Riyadh, the Saudi capital.  The establishment of the Equestrian Club of Riyadh in 1965 was a result of the importance of horse racing.  Moreover, now Saudis are the dominant player in some international horse racing such as   to   and Melbourne. \n  is another sport with long traditions rooted in Bedouin culture.  It mainly consists of raising falcons, training them and using them for hunting.  Despite the inscription of Falconry by the UNESCO as a living human heritage,  it is also emerging as a sport. \n  is a uniquely Arabian sport practiced in the kingdom (and the  ) that still has some mass popularity. There are camel racetracks in most of the kingdom's major centres, and races for prize money on many weekends throughout the winter months. Like racehorses, camels with breeding pedigrees may be very valuable. \n In 2012, Saudi Arabia included women in its Olympic team for the first time. Two female athletes—a runner and judoka—participated. The inclusion followed international criticism for years of exclusion,  but was controversial in the kingdom, and \"prompted some to abuse the morals\" of the athletes on social media. \n As of April 2014, Saudi authorities in the education ministry have been asked by the Shoura Council to consider lifting a state school ban on sports for girls with the proviso that any sports conform to Sharia rules on dress and gender segregation, according to the official SPA news agency. \n Women participation have then increased as four athletes were sent to the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio. They were two runner Sarah Attar, and Cariman Abu al-Jadail joined by judo athlete Wujud Fahmi and fencing competitor Lubna al-Omair. \n In 2018, more than 1300 girls participated in a 3 km marathon, al-Ahsa Runs, for the first time in the country. \n Visual arts tend to be dominated by geometric, floral, and abstract designs and by calligraphy. Sunni Islam traditionally prohibits creating representations of people. With the advent of oil wealth in the 20th century came exposure to outside influences, such as Western housing styles, furnishings, and clothes. \n Calligraphy is the art of forming arranging beautiful letters and symbols, and it is among the dominant art forms in Saudi Arabia. This art has been emerging in different themes such as metalwork, ceramics, glass textiles, painting, and sculpture. \n Apart from the dominant art forms, there were some portrait paintings and sculptures produced by some artists in the 1960s like Artist Dia Aziz Dia from  . \n  is another essential art form represents the identity of the Asir region. It is the art of interior wall decoration usually carried out by women. The base of this art is white gypsum with colorful patterns of geometric shapes and symbol painted on it.  This art form is now inscribed on   Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n The ten-day-long   National Festival celebrates the founding of the kingdom and showcases Saudi culture and heritage, traditional crafts such as pottery and woodcutting, folk dance and traditional songs. \n Music and dance have always been part of Saudi life. Bedouin poetry, known as  , is still very popular. \nTraditional music is generally associated with poetry and is sung collectively. Instruments include the  , an instrument not unlike a three-string fiddle, and various types of percussion instruments, such as the   (drum) and the   (tambourine).\n  folk music has its origins in  . In  ,   and  , dance and song incorporate the sound of the  , an  -like woodwind instrument, in the performance of the  . The drum is also an important instrument according to traditional and tribal customs.   is a popular traditional form of music and dance in which poetry is sung.\nOf the native dances, the most popular is a martial line dance known as the  , which includes lines of men, frequently armed with swords or rifles, dancing to the beat of drums and tambourines. As one non-Saudi described it, the performance consists of : \"barefooted males clad in their normal street clothes of thobe and gutra jumping up and down mostly in one spot while wielding swords\". \n  is another popular dance in Northern Saudi performed by one line of men or two lines facing each other while a man in between sings a poem which can be a satirical, eulogy or a descriptive poem. \n Bedouin poetry is a cultural tradition in Saudi Arabia. According to  , author of  , \"the role that formal poetry, prose, and oratory play in Saudi culture is totally alien to Western culture.\"  Mackey explained that the Bedouin poet was the origin of Saudi society's traditionally strong attachment to the concept of language.  She said that poetry \"can arise in the most curious of situations\" due to the role of poetry in Saudi culture. \n The literary renaissance began during the first quarter of the 20th century where the literary genre of poetry was improved in language and number of poets. The pioneer poets during that era include   (1914-2004), Tahir Zamakhshri (1914-1987), and Hasan Alqurashi (1926-2004). \n Novel writing is another literary genre in Saudi literature where the first Saudi novel was The Twins (1930) by Abdul Alquddus Alansari.  In the modern era of Saudi novel, some novel writer becomes popular like Turki Alhamad, Abdu Khal Raja Alim. \n Theatre in Saudi Arabia back to 1928 where their origins were schools. The earliest attempts were in   and  , and subsequently, universities contributed to the theatre activities. \n Contemporary Saudi novelists and artists include:\n During the 1970s, cinemas were numerous in the kingdom although they were seen as contrary to tribal norms.  All cinemas and theaters were closed in 1980 as a political response to the Islamic revival and the increase in   activism, most particularly the 1979  . As of 2018, cinemas opened in multiple cities including Riyadh and Jeddah.\n Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's Vision 2030 should bring cinemas back to the country in early 2018.  The establishment of the   in 2016 has pushed for entertainment options of the including cinemas, public concerts, international conferences, competitions, singing show and other cultural activities. \n"},
{"url": "https://www.vision2030.gov.sa/sitemap.xml", "content": ""},
{"url": "https://xpressriyadh.com/7-famous-drinks-in-saudi-arabia/", "content": ""}
]
